Question: The umbrella theory explaining the Earth's movement, contact, and flattening of large land plates is known as. Answer: plate tectonics
Question: A long, narrow, upper atmosphere current of fast moving air is known as a. Answer: jet stream
Question: Archaeologists record the top layers first, followed by older, deeper layers to study ancient settlements and cities following the. Answer: principle of superposition
Question: Gravitational forces within the Earth, as well as heat and radioactive element recycling in the molten core, take place through. Answer: convection
Question: Which two gases make up the majority of the Earth's gases?. Answer: Nitrogen and oxygen
Question: Because he figured out that sedimentary rock must have been compacted and compressed, over many ages, _______ is known as the father of modern geology.. Answer: James Hutton
Question: An ocean trench is formed along the. Answer: convergent boundary of two colliding plates
Question: Which of the following is the highest layer of the atmosphere?. Answer: Thermosphere
Question: Water-layered sediments that thin to nothing at a shore or the area where first deposited are the subject of the. Answer: principle of lateral continuity
Question: Any solid material (rock or organic) that settles out from a liquid is known as. Answer: sediment
Question: The principle of uniformitarianism includes the idea that. Answer: continental shifting and compression are possible across different regions
Question: A volcano with little erosion and that may erupt at any time is classified as. Answer: dormant
Question: Primary waves, which bunch together and then move apart like an inchworm, are. Answer: the fastest seismic waves
Question: Large temperature differences and strong pressure differences between warm and cold air cause the formation of the. Answer: jet stream
Question: A huge layer of rock that drifts slowly over the supporting upper mantle layer is a. Answer: geological plate
Question: When Mount Vesuvius erupted in 79 A.D., most people were killed by. Answer: poisonous volcanic gases
Question: A large earthquake occurs, on average, somewhere in the world each year of greater than. Answer: 8.0 magnitude
Question: A sudden change in the wind's direction or speed with increasing altitude is called. Answer: wind shear
Question: The northern and southern lights are found in the. Answer: thermosphere
Question: Where two crustal plates collide and one plate is forced under the other into the mantle, it is called a. Answer: subduction zone
Question: Relationships between earth layers and soil samples are described by. Answer: chronostatic time measurements
Question: The relationship between air temperature and the amount of water vapor it contains is known as. Answer: relative humidity
Question: The location directly above an earthquake's hypocenter on the earth's surface is the. Answer: epicenter
Question: Love waves are a type of. Answer: surface wave
Question: Vibrations in the Earth caused by cracks or shifts in the underlying rock are called. Answer: seismic waves
Question: The following are all time units of the geological time scale except. Answer: ages
Question: The thermosphere is also called the. Answer: ionosphere
Question: A hurricane's course depends upon location and. Answer: trade wind direction
Question: The Coriolis effect is a result of the Earth's. Answer: rotation
Question: An isobar is a. Answer: line connecting areas of the same atmospheric pressure
Question: Using the table below asdf, if the wind is blowing 30 km/h and the outside temperature is 15°C, what is the wind chill factor in degrees Celsius?. Answer: 12°C
Question: Groundwater is stored in. Answer: all of the above
Question: The layer closest to the surface, where spaces between soil particles are filled with both air and water, is called the zone of. Answer: aeration
Question: Infiltration takes place when. Answer: rainfall soaks into the ground
Question: When water changes from a liquid to a gas or vapor, the process is called. Answer: evaporation
Question: A tropical depression is the first phase in the formation of a. Answer: hurricane
Question: The study of the occurrence, distribution, and movement of water on, in, and above the surface of the Earth is called. Answer: hydrology
Question: The oceans hold approximately what percent of the Earth's water?. Answer: 97%
Question: Aquifers that form a water table separating unsaturated and saturated zones are called. Answer: unconfined aquifers
Question: The water found in subterranean spaces, cracks, and open pore spaces of minerals is called. Answer: groundwater
Question: Rainfall or snow melt that has not had time to evaporate, transpire, or move into groundwater is known as. Answer: runoff
Question: When moving through the eye wall of a hurricane and into the eye, surface pressure. Answer: decreases
Question: The area at the surface or below ground that supplies water to an aquifer and/or most of the watershed or drainage basin is called. Answer: an aquifer recharge zone
Question: The amount of open space in the soil is called. Answer: soil porosity
Question: Under surface soil, where all the open spaces have become filled with water, lies the zone of. Answer: saturation
Question: Pesticide and fertilizer use on crops affects water purity when. Answer: runoff joins with surface and/or groundwater
Question: The depletion of water from aquifers faster than they can naturally be refilled is called. Answer: groundwater mining
Question: The amount of withdrawn water lost in transport, evaporation, absorption, chemical change, or is otherwise unavailable as a result of human use is known as. Answer: consumption
Question: When water is blocked by a low-permeability material below the aquifer, it is known as. Answer: a perched water table
Question: Lithification, comes from the Greek word lithos, meaning. Answer: stone
Question: Diagenesis causes. Answer: lithification of sediment by physical and chemical processes
Question: Which of the following is a common metamorphic rock type?. Answer: Slate
Question: Metamorphic rock is known as a. Answer: chameleon of rock types
Question: When several rock-stratigraphic units are stacked vertically, they are called a. Answer: formation
Question: When rock on the Earth's surface is worn away, it is called. Answer: exfoliation
Question: Clastic sedimentary rocks are made up of. Answer: pieces of other rocks
Question: Which of the following plays a big part in soil erosion?. Answer: Tillage
Question: Which process wears away existing rocks and produces lots of small rock?. Answer: Weathering
Question: The following are all tools in soil conservation except for. Answer: deforestation
Question: Which metamorphic rock is often used as a paving and building stone?. Answer: Marble
Question: Felsic and mafic are two types of. Answer: igneous rock
Question: What percentage of the world's land is at risk of desertification?. Answer: 30%
Question: Pebbles surrounded by a covering of sand or mud is known as. Answer: a conglomerate
Question: The description of an area's land contours and surface features is called. Answer: topography
Question: Pedocal, pedalfer, and laterite are three basic soil types based primarily on. Answer: water content
Question: Which soil horizon consists of a zone of accumulation, where ions transported by rainwater are reconnected to create new minerals?. Answer: Horizon B
Question: A complex community of plants, animals, and microorganisms linked by interacting energy and nutrient flows is called a(n). Answer: ecosystem
Question: The world's oceans make up what percent of the planet's biosphere?. Answer: 99%
Question: Which diverse ecosystem absorbs high flow and releases water slowly?. Answer: Wetlands
Question: Madagascar and the Indian Ocean islands, the Philippines, Sundaland, the Atlantic Forest, and the Caribbean are all considered. Answer: hotspots
Question: Aircraft, high-altitude balloons, and satellites are all used in. Answer: remote sensing
Question: The vertical range that contains the biosphere is roughly. Answer: 20,000 meters high
Question: When a species like the dodo bird becomes extinct, it is said to be. Answer: gone forever
Question: The total area in which a plant, animal, insect, or other organism travels in its lifetime determines its. Answer: range
Question: In which layer do all the pressure, wind, and precipitation changes occur?. Answer: Troposphere
Question: Tornadoes of the F4/F5 category account for what percent of deaths?. Answer: 65%
Question: ASTER information is used to draw detailed maps of land surface temperature, elevation, and. Answer: reflectance
Question: Adjacent habitats have overlapping boundaries called. Answer: ecotones
Question: Over time, a previously untouched area like a volcanic flow will be populated by different species creating soil, cover, shade, and food resulting in a(n). Answer: primary succession of development
Question: A hotspot is an ecological region that has high biodiversity and lost. Answer: over 70% of its original habitat
Question: The most important factor currently affecting many species is. Answer: loss of habitat
Question: The use of resources in a manner that protects a species or environment without causing long-term loss is known as. Answer: sustainable use
Question: When no two species can fill the same niche at the same time and the weaker species must fill a smaller niche, relocate, or die, it is known as. Answer: Gause's principle
Question: When a species' numbers drop continuously because of habitat destruction, the species is said to be. Answer: endangered
Question: Mutualism is a type of symbiosis where. Answer: both species benefit
Question: When a species has no competitive limitations, it has a. Answer: fundamental niche
Question: When an ecosystem reaches its final stage of balanced species development, it is called a(n). Answer: climax community
Question: When calcium carbonate is used to build the shells of sea creatures, it is called. Answer: biomineralization
Question: By dry weight, approximately what percent of carbon are humans composed of?. Answer: 50%
Question: Scientists have studied the carbon cycle in all the following geochemical reservoirs except. Answer: the Earth's core
Question: Carbon-containing material from living or nonliving sources is called. Answer: organic material
Question: When freshwater has high concentrations of calcium and/or magnesium, it is commonly called. Answer: hard water
Question: ENSO takes place at intervals of 2 to 7 years and lasts approximately. Answer: 1 to 2 years
Question: The residence time of oxygen in the atmosphere is. Answer: 6,000 years
Question: When plants pull water from the soil, use the dissolved minerals to grow, and release the water back through the leaves, it is known as. Answer: evapotranspiration
Question: Plants are known as primary producers of. Answer: biomass
Question: The idea that matter is neither created, nor destroyed, but recycled through natural cycles is known as. Answer: conservation of matter
Question: All the following are natural water reservoirs except. Answer: limestone
Question: A plant's reaction that captures visible light wavelengths (0.4 to 0.7 µm) and transforms them into chemical energy is known as. Answer: photosynthesis
Question: Organisms that consume litter, debris, and dung are called. Answer: detritivores
Question: When ammonia is taken up by plants, dissolved by water, or remains in the soil to be converted to nitrates, it is known as. Answer: nitrification
Question: The location where planetary water is stored for a length of time is called. Answer: water reservoir
Question: Inorganic sulfur is found primarily in rock and minerals as iron pyrite and. Answer: gypsum
Question: All things that take up space and have mass are known as. Answer: matter
Question: When the temperature of the air or land changes,. Answer: condensation of water vapor occurs
Question: When plants absorb carbon dioxide and sunlight to make glucose and build cellular structures, it is known as the. Answer: biological carbon cycle
Question: Matter exists in three forms: solid, liquid, and. Answer: gas
Question: Change in gene frequency is known as. Answer: genetic drift
Question: Which term is used to describe the longest time interval a certain species is estimated to live?. Answer: Life span
Question: Fecundity is the actual capability to reproduce, while number of offspring produced is a measure of. Answer: fertility
Question: The rule of 70 is used to estimate. Answer: population doubling
Question: Movement out of a population is known as. Answer: emigration
Question: The number of years an individual is statistically likely to live is called his or her. Answer: life expectancy
Question: Isolation, genetic drift, and founder effect help biologists figure out. Answer: minimum viable population size
Question: Preindustrial populations usually have slow growth rates and. Answer: ↑ birth and ↑ death rates
Question: Biotic and abiotic factors greatly affect. Answer: population density
Question: Despite humanitarian concerns, human population control. Answer: reaped substantial benefits in China
Question: A group of individuals of the same species in the same geographical area is known as a. Answer: population
Question: Exponential human population growth is affected by all the following factors except. Answer: increased television time
Question: The germination, cloning, birth, or hatching of individuals in a population is known as. Answer: natality
Question: When a population's growth rate changes to match local conditions, it is known as. Answer: logistic growth
Question: Salt wedging, caused by the growth of salt crystals, is an important rock-breaking force in the. Answer: desert
Question: Zebra mussels are. Answer: an introduced alien species in the Great Lakes
Question: Growing marine or aquatic species in net pens or tanks is known as. Answer: aquaculture
Question: Species transported from tropical regions of the Atlantic to the Pacific. Answer: have greater impact on the new environment
Question: When DNA is combined in ways to augment certain characteristics in a species' natural growth, the result is known as a. Answer: genetically modified organism
Question: When nontarget fish species or other marine animals are caught in nets or through other fishing methods, they are called. Answer: bycatch
Question: The huge increase in yields obtained through modern cultivation techniques has become known as the. Answer: green revolution
Question: Small land plots that are planted early, heavily sprayed with pesticides, and their crop later des-troyed are known as. Answer: trap plots
Question: Which of the following has caused the greatest increase in the introduction of marine alien species into new ecosystems?. Answer: Shipping
Question: Fishing methods like bottom trawling, gill netting, and longlining are especially subject to. Answer: bycatch
Question: The Food Quality Protection Act caused the Environmental Protection Agency to. Answer: assess inert ingredients for the first time
Question: Agroecology is another word for. Answer: sustainable agriculture
Question: Something that lowers the quantity, quality, or value of resources is known as a. Answer: biological pest
Question: When species are transported geographically to an unknown area, they are called. Answer: nonnative species
Question: Three agencies are responsible for regulating pesticides used in food: the Environmental Protection Agency, the Food and Drug Administration, and the. Answer: Department of Agriculture
Question: Rodenticides kill rats and mice, while ticks and spider mites are killed by. Answer: acaricides
Question: It has been estimated that over 60% of all processed food in America contains. Answer: GMO ingredients
Question: Hormones that stop larval growth, combined with mechanical vacuuming of bugs from plants, are examples of. Answer: integrated pest management
Question: One method to conserve water and make sure it gets directly to plant roots is through. Answer: drip irrigation
Question: Organic farms have lower feed and veterinarian costs since their animals are. Answer: healthier
Question: Deserts cover roughly what percentage of the Earth's land surface?. Answer: 30%
Question: When formerly fertile land is degraded, there is. Answer: loss of biodiversity
Question: Deforestation, overgrazing, and bad irrigation practices all contribute to. Answer: desertification
Question: In size, the Great Basin Desert of the United States is only about one-third the size of the (see the table below asdf). Answer: Gobi Desert
Question: Forests are mainly divided into temperate and. Answer: tropical regions
Question: Old-growth coastal redwoods live to be as much as. Answer: 2,000 years old
Question: Second- and third-growth forests contain. Answer: trees of the same age and size
Question: The European white elm tree in western Siberia is known as a. Answer: relict species
Question: Which is important for some biological species to reproduce and clear undergrowth for new sprouts?. Answer: Fire
Question: A tropical rain forest, found near the equator, has. Answer: the richest diversity of terrestrial plants and animals
Question: In developing countries, the need for which major resource will double in the next 25 years?. Answer: Fuel wood and charcoal
Question: What percentage of all the forests on the Earth has been converted to cropland?. Answer: 50%
Question: When plant cover is removed by clear-cutting, other local populations (mammals, birds, and insects). Answer: are greatly affected
Question: When topsoil is blown or washed away, what happens to the remaining land?. Answer: Its biochemical makeup is changed.
Question: What extremely long-lived tree species is resistant to insects and fire?. Answer: Redwood
Question: Rotational grazing involves all the following ranching and herding activities except. Answer: long-term grazing of herds over a large area
Question: Urbanization came about from. Answer: gradual changes in land use and societal culture
Question: Push and pull immigration factors include. Answer: all of the above
Question: The amount of surface area needed to provide for a population's needs and dispose of its waste is called its. Answer: ecological footprint
Question: When ore piles are sprayed with a weak cyanide solution to extract gold, it is known as. Answer: heap-leach extraction
Question: All of the following affect a mineral's internal structure except. Answer: boiling point
Question: Deposits formed from evaporation, wind deposit, sedimentation, or volcanic heating contain. Answer: minerals
Question: Deserts are distinguished by all the following factors except. Answer: lightning strikes
Question: Remote sensing is an important tool in the study of dynamic desert features like. Answer: dunes
Question: The following factors can all increase desertification except. Answer: forest management
Question: A growing plant transpires up to ___ times as much water volume as it holds at one time.. Answer: 10
Question: The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act mandated. Answer: restoration of strip-mined land
Question: Megacities have over. Answer: 10 million inhabitants
Question: A naturally found, inorganic solid with a specific crystalline structure and chemical composition is called a. Answer: mineral
Question: What percent of urban sewage is treated in Latin America?. Answer: 2%
Question: Bike routes, light-rail, zoning, and development regulations increase. Answer: environmental sustainability
Question: Feeding, transporting, sheltering, providing water, and waste disposal are all problems of. Answer: urban sprawl
Question: Grassland, agriculture, and forests. Answer: cover the world's land area
Question: When ore is heated to extract minerals, it is known as. Answer: smelting
Question: What percent of Mexico City's population lives in shantytowns built on undeveloped land from scavenged materials?. Answer: 50%
Question: An unforeseen result of suburban living is. Answer: less exercise
Question: When water is used to wash away soil from gold nuggets in shallow pans or in long wooden troughs, it is called. Answer: placer mining
Question: A communal resource management system includes all the following factors except. Answer: privatization and self-interest
Question: What percentage of U.S. energy comes from fossil fuels?. Answer: 82%
Question: Coal is often contaminated with what element?. Answer: Sulfur
Question: The amount of energy needed to heat 1 gram of water to 1 degree Celsius is a. Answer: calorie
Question: Solids, liquids, and gases created through the compression of ancient organic plant and animal material in the Earth's crust are called. Answer: fossil fuels
Question: Coal deposits that have been mapped, measured, and economically recoverable are known as. Answer: proven reserves
Question: The number of individuals born at or near the same time and living to a specific age is called. Answer: survivorship
Question: The force needed to accelerate 1 kilogram by 1 meter per second is called a. Answer: newton
Question: In the industrialized world, the burning of fossil fuels is probably the biggest single source of. Answer: air pollution
Question: Twenty percent of the total U.S. energy demand is used for lighting, heating, air conditioning, water heating, and. Answer: cooking
Question: The first oil well in North America was drilled in Oil Springs, Ontario, in. Answer: 1855
Question: Natural gas has much less waste since it needs little refining, is transported through underground pipelines, and burns with. Answer: 75-95% efficiency
Question: Coal dust is very toxic to the lungs and causes. Answer: black lung disease
Question: Before fossil fuels became commonly used, what was popularly used for lamp oils and candles?. Answer: Whale oil
Question: A sedimentary rock containing solid organic matter is called. Answer: kerogen
Question: Prior to mine reclamation laws, mine drainage and acidic runoff from coal tailings were toxic by-products of. Answer: strip mining
Question: A hotly debated area with large oil reserves is. Answer: ANWR
Question: When coal is used to produce electricity, what fraction of the original energy is lost in thermal conversion at the plant?. Answer: 
Question: A big concern facing geologists in long-term radioactive waste storage is that. Answer: groundwater will seep into land sites and become contaminated
Question: A nuclear reactor contains a core with many fuel rods containing. Answer: uranium oxide pellets
Question: Which country's government has strongly promoted increases in nuclear power use over the past 30 years?. Answer: France
Question: An instrument used to detect radioactive ions is called a(n). Answer: ionization counter
Question: A strong regulatory backlash to nuclear power in the United States occurred in response to the. Answer: Three Mile Island accident
Question: About 75% of the original energy in oil is lost during distillation into. Answer: gasoline
Question: DDT, which kills malaria-carrying mosquitoes, had a large negative impact on. Answer: nontarget predatory bird species
Question: When was the last nuclear power plant built and opened in the United States?. Answer: 2016
Question: The time for a radioactive element or isotope to degrade is known as its. Answer: half-life
Question: The Yucca Mountain, NV, facility, originally scheduled to open in 2017, was intended for the. Answer: storage of spent uranium fuel
Question: The biggest advantage of nuclear energy generation is that. Answer: it doesn't generate greenhouse gases
Question: Decay of radioactive isotopes is affected by the. Answer: stability of an element at a certain energy level
Question: After Three Mile Island, much better plant and safety designs, along with the creation of which organization, occurred?. Answer: Institute of Nuclear Power Operations
Question: Each year, roughly what amount of used fuel is created by every 1,000-megawatt nuclear electric power plant?. Answer: 30 metric tons
Question: French scientist Marie Curie coined what term in 1898?. Answer: Radioactivity
Question: Besides alpha and beta particles separated in a magnetic field, what other short-wavelength particles can be detected?. Answer: Gamma particles
Question: Radioactive elements provide power sources for all but which of the following?. Answer: Automobiles
Question: What important action did the Nuclear Regulatory Commission take in 2000?. Answer: They issued the first-ever renewal of a nuclear power plant's operating license.
Question: Nuclear power is commonly generated using the element. Answer: uranium
Question: The Staebler-Wronski effect describes. Answer: solar cell degradation
Question: Geothermal reservoirs can reach temperatures of. Answer: 370°C
Question: Impoundment, diversion, and run-of-river are all types of. Answer: hydroelectric power plants
Question: Ethanol is used in the United States as a fuel additive to. Answer: reduce incomplete combustion emissions
Question: Flowing water that creates energy and is turned into electricity is called. Answer: hydroelectric power
Question: Turbines catch the wind with two to three propeller-like blades mounted on a shaft to form a. Answer: rotor
Question: What percent of the world's population uses wood or charcoal as a main energy source?. Answer: 40%
Question: When deep underground heat is transferred by thermal conduction through water to the surface, it is called. Answer: geothermal energy
Question: Sea surface temperature changes greater than 0.5°C for greater than 5 months across the central tropical Pacific Ocean are known as. Answer: El Niño-Southern Oscillation
Question: Propeller-like turbine blades are used to generate electricity from. Answer: wind
Question: What alternate source of renewable energy provides nearly 0.5% of total U.S. electricity?. Answer: geothermal
Question: A Renewable Energy Certificate (REC) describes. Answer: environmental, social, and non-power characteristics of renewable electricity generation
Question: Tidal energy taps. Answer: incoming and outgoing tides
Question: Industrial greenhouse gas emission profiles are products of which nonprofit organization?. Answer: GHG Registry
Question: Diffusing phosphorus onto boron-coated silicon wafers produces. Answer: semiconductor connections
Question: All the following are good sites for wind turbines except. Answer: forests
Question: The problem with ethanol is its ability to. Answer: increase the polluting effects of other compounds
Question: What element is released during electrolysis?. Answer: Hydrogen
Question: What safe fuel offers superior performance and is the fuel of choice for race cars?. Answer: Methanol
Question: The Earth gets more energy from the sun in an hour than. Answer: the planet uses in a year
Question: Using the table below asdf, find the greatest noise level difference between the sound of a wind turbine and a. Answer: helicopter
Question: The atmospheric layer largely responsible for absorbing the sun's ultraviolet (UV) radiation is the. Answer: troposphere
Question: Precipitation is considered acidic (e.g., rain, snow, sleet, hail, fog) if it has a pH less than. Answer: pH 5.6
Question: The four main polluting contaminant types include all the following except. Answer: drought
Question: Atmospheric gases blanketing the Earth exist in a mixture. What percent of this mixture is nitrogen (by volume)?. Answer: 80%
Question: Taxes on fossil fuels, mining, energy, forestry, fishing and hunting licensing, garbage, effluent and emissions, and hazardous wastes are known as. Answer: green taxes
Question: The atmospheric layer where all the local temperature, pressure, wind, and precipitation changes take place is the. Answer: troposphere
Question: Why is thermal pollution a problem for marine organisms?. Answer: Their metabolic processes break down.
Question: When acid rain falls on limestone statues, monuments, and gravestones, discoloring and disfiguring surfaces, the process is known as. Answer: dissolution
Question: Brown urban smog is not emitted directly from specific sources, but formed in the atmosphere from nitrogen oxides and. Answer: volatile organic compounds
Question: In the workplace, bad air mixed with mold spores has led to. Answer: sick building syndrome
Question: Direct impacts on the hydrologic cycle include all the following except. Answer: mining
Question: Looking at the figure below asdf, what dose would be lethal to 25% of the population?. Answer: 11 ppm
Question: City heat islands cause. Answer: pollutants to collect
Question: Total organic carbon (TOC) levels are used by hydrologists to check the health of freshwater as it affects biogeochemical processes and. Answer: nutrient cycling
Question: The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) is commonly called the. Answer: Superfund
Question: The amount of dissolved oxygen in water depends on. Answer: all of the above
Question: Turbidity is a measure of water's. Answer: cloudiness
Question: The amount of oxygen depletion in water depends on the speed at which a stream can take up atmospheric oxygen and replenish its. Answer: reaeration capacity
Question: The least likely way microscopic pathogens (e.g., bacteria, viruses, and protozoa) enter waterways is through. Answer: mining runoff
Question: Greenhouses work. Answer: by trapping the sun's heat
Question: Natural and industrial emission inventories contain. Answer: all of the above
Question: Greenhouse gases include all the following, except. Answer: butyric acid
Question: Climate change includes all the following except. Answer: cooling of the Earth's core
Question: When fossil fuels are burned, adding to greenhouse gases and creating global warming, it is known as. Answer: enhanced greenhouse effect
Question: Important decreases in greenhouse gas could be achieved by all the following except. Answer: mining and burning more coal
Question: The 2004 United Nations' Convention on Biological Diversity suggests that global warming is causing. Answer: species habitat and migration shifts averaging 6.1 kilometers per decade toward the poles
Question: Stabilizing atmospheric levels of carbon dioxide will mean reducing carbon dioxide emissions and other heat-trapping gases to what percent of 1990 global levels?. Answer: 80%
Question: Which of the following does not describe nitrogen oxides?. Answer: They are blue in color.
Question: If the amount of human-produced carbon dioxide being absorbed into the oceans gets high enough, the ocean's top layer may become increasingly. Answer: acidic
Question: Ranching, crops, number of pests and diseases, and native plants and animals will be impacted by. Answer: climate change
Question: Removal and storage of atmospheric carbon in carbon sinks (e.g., oceans, forests) through physical and biological processes is called. Answer: carbon sequestration
Question: Compared to carbon dioxide, how do nitrogen oxides trap heat in the atmosphere?. Answer: They trap heat much more efficiently.
Question: What group developed guidelines to help countries create atmospheric inventories across international borders?. Answer: IPCC
Question: Depending on the level of greenhouse gases in the next 100 to 200 years, scientists predict temperature increases between -16°C and -13°C, with sea levels rising up to. Answer: 8 meters
Question: Geological time is classified by scientists in different amounts (e.g., eons, eras, periods, and ______________).. Answer: epochs
Question: Any solid material that settles out from a liquid is known as. Answer: sediment
Question: Seismographs record earthquake primary waves, secondary waves, and. Answer: wave amplitude
Question: During volcanic explosions, more people are often killed by. Answer: poisonous gases
Question: The formation and movement of ocean and continental masses are known as. Answer: plate tectonics
Question: The term weather describes atmospheric conditions with respect to moisture, wind velocity, barometric pressure, and. Answer: temperature
Question: The Earth's rotation and tilt around the Sun causes different seasons geographically. Which global region gets the most solar energy?. Answer: Equator
Question: Relative humidity best describes. Answer: the relationship between air temperature and water vapor
Question: When wind changes speed or direction abruptly, it is known as. Answer: wind shear
Question: The Earth's rotation is a major factor in. Answer: the Coriolis effect
Question: Which layer of the atmosphere is the most active with regard to weather?. Answer: Troposphere
Question: The measure of how easily water flows through soil is called its. Answer: permeability
Question: The zone of aeration is a soil layer where. Answer: the spaces between particles are filled with air and water
Question: When water enters an aquifer, it. Answer: recharges
Question: Drainage basins with thousands of streams and rivers draining to them are also called. Answer: watersheds
Question: The branch of geology that studies rock layers is called. Answer: stratigraphy
Question: The three main rock types are sedimentary, metamorphic, and. Answer: igneous
Question: External pressure causes rocks to have different size crack and fractures called. Answer: joints
Question: When rocks of one type are changed into another type by heat or pressure, they become. Answer: metamorphic rock
Question: Rocks are broken down into smaller pieces in all of the following ways except. Answer: granular integration
Question: A chemical reaction with water that speeds up chemical weathering is called. Answer: acid rain
Question: At what general elevation is most of the Earth's life found?. Answer: sea level
Question: The close relationship between organisms of different species that may or may not help each other is called. Answer: symbiosis
Question: Chance alterations in the genetic material of a cell's nucleus are known as. Answer: genetic drift
Question: The overall number of different organisms, species, and ecosystems is called. Answer: biodiversity
Question: When ammonia is taken up by plants, dissolved by water, or stored in soil to be converted to nitrates, it is known as. Answer: nitrification
Question: A species' placement within a food chain or web is known as its. Answer: trophic level
Question: The hydrologic cycle includes all the following except. Answer: respiration
Question: Plants use sunlight in visible wavelengths to produce energy in a process called. Answer: photosynthesis
Question: Life expectancy is the number of years a person is expected to live based upon. Answer: statistical probability
Question: In Charles Darwin's 1859 book, On the Origin of Species, he states that limited resources result in ________________ and that only the strongest species survive to pass on their genetics.. Answer: competition
Question: The average amount of time a chemical element spends in a geological reservoir cycle is called its. Answer: residence time
Question: The IPCC is most important in studying. Answer: climate change
Question: The lowest number of individuals needed for a species' continued survival is known as a. Answer: minimum viable population size
Question: What tool do scientists use to study and predict changes in a population?. Answer: Age-structure diagrams
Question: To preserve natural resources, we can reduce usage by all the following except:. Answer: taking longer showers
Question: What population dynamic principle is described by the equation rN = ΔN/Δt?. Answer: Biotic potential
Question: What organisms perform photosynthesis to produce energy and draw carbon out of the atmosphere?. Answer: Plankton
Question: When considering sustainable harvests in forest management, which of the following is a key consideration?. Answer: Fire impacts
Question: Due to the problem of storing water and finding shelter from extreme heat, which are the dominant creatures in warm deserts?. Answer: Snakes and lizards
Question: All of the following are pesticides except. Answer: odonticides
Question: With regard to plant produce, the acronym GMO stands for. Answer: genetically modified organism
Question: Looking at the table below asdf, which of the following is a type of natural organic pesticide?. Answer: Aromatic oils
Question: Logistic growth is obtained from the equation rN(1 - N/K) = ΔN/Δt, where K is. Answer: carrying capacity
Question: Non-native (alien) species are transplanted by all the following, except. Answer: swimming to a nearby area
Question: The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimates that nearly three billion people suffer from. Answer: malnourishment
Question: Old-growth forests have. Answer: never been harvested
Question: What percent of total greenhouse gases comes from carbon dioxide?. Answer: 80%
Question: The large-scale, total elimination of trees from an area is known as. Answer: deforestation
Question: The first phase in the formation of a hurricane is. Answer: a drop in barometric pressure
Question: In plate tectonics, colliding plates along a convergent margin often form. Answer: an ocean trench
Question: Scientists use the IPAT equation (I = P × A × T) to find. Answer: a population's impact on area resources
Question: Six of the world's eight largest cities (population greater than 10 million) are. Answer: coastal
Question: What is the major problem with shared global resources?. Answer: They can be exploited by a single group
Question: All organisms need __________ to function.. Answer: energy
Question: Deserts cover approximately what percentage of the Earth's land surface?. Answer: 30%
Question: How many toxic air pollutants are released yearly from U.S. mining operations as estimated by the Environmental Protection Agency?. Answer: 100
Question: If a species can't adapt or find new habitat, it can become. Answer: extinct
Question: Water may spend as little as 2 days in the hydrologic cycle or as much as. Answer: 10,000 years
Question: The extreme compression of ancient organic plant and animal materials in the Earth's crust form. Answer: fossil fuels
Question: The First Law of Thermodynamics describes how. Answer: energy cannot be created or destroyed
Question: The area needed for a population to provide for itself and dispose of its waste is called its. Answer: ecological footprint
Question: Frost wedging represents what type of weathering?. Answer: Physical
Question: In the biological carbon cycle, the two major processes that play a role in carbon movement are photosynthesis and. Answer: respiration
Question: Gause's principle explains that. Answer: no two species can fill the same niche at the same time
Question: The term for energy's rate of flow is. Answer: power
Question: Which fossil fuel needs little refining and is burned with 75-95% efficiency?. Answer: Natural gas
Question: Which of the following does the United States depend on for 85% of its energy?. Answer: Fossil fuels
Question: Water is critical to life, but as many as _____ people worldwide don't have access to clean, safe water.. Answer: 1 billion
Question: When oil is distilled into gasoline, what percentage of the original energy is lost?. Answer: 75%
Question: Nuclear power is primarily created in one of two ways: fission and. Answer: fusion
Question: Breeder reactors, which produce more energy than they use can provide energy for. Answer: a million years
Question: The following are all positive uses of radioactive elements, except. Answer: crop fertilizers
Question: In 1898, which scientist coined the term radioactivity?. Answer: Marie Curie
Question: Of the 439 nuclear power plants worldwide, how many are in the United States?. Answer: 104
Question: Plants use sunlight as energy that is released as ____________ when burned.. Answer: heat
Question: A disadvantage of ethanol as a fuel alternative is its. Answer: solvency of toxic chemicals in the soil and groundwater
Question: The Staebler-Wronski effect describes. Answer: solar cell degradation
Question: What additive is used in the United States to lower incomplete combustion emissions?. Answer: Ethanol
Question: Electricity sent out in small amounts to nearby points where it is needed is known as. Answer: distributed power
Question: The main component of organic matter is. Answer: carbon
Question: What percentage of U.S. power comes from geothermal energy?. Answer: 10%
Question: When a layer of warm air rolls over the top of cooler air in cities rimmed by mountains, it is called a. Answer: temperature inversion
Question: Nutrient cycling, biological availability, and chemical transport are important for marine organisms. What do hydrologists test to check the health of freshwater?. Answer: Total organic carbon (TOC)
Question: The burning of oil and gas products in vehicles produce all the following products, except. Answer: neon
Question: Toxic pollutants trapped indoors and mixed with mold spores has led to. Answer: sick building syndrome
Question: The Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) for motor vehicles was created by the. Answer: Energy Policy and Conservation Act
Question: Hydrologists check the health of freshwater streams by measuring. Answer: total organic carbon levels
Question: Which of the following pH measurements from water could indicate acidic mine drainage?. Answer: pH 5.1
Question: When atmospheric gases are not released into space but build up in the Earth's atmosphere, it is called. Answer: greenhouse effect
Question: Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a natural greenhouse gas and contributes approximately what percentage to the greenhouse effect?. Answer: 80%
Question: When atmospheric gases keep heat from being released back into space, allowing it to build up in the Earth's atmosphere, it is known as. Answer: the greenhouse effect
Question: Which colorless, odorless, flammable hydrocarbon released by the breakdown of organic matter and coal carbonization is the second biggest additive to the greenhouse effect?. Answer: Methane
Question: Which atmospheric bodyguard has a crucial role in protecting life on Earth from radiation?. Answer: Ozone
Question: The difference in the climate's average state or its variability over an extended period of time is summarized as. Answer: climate change
Question: The amount of open space between soil particles is called. Answer: porosity
Question: Uranium oxide, found in granite and other volcanic rocks, is also known as. Answer: pitchblende
Question: With international timber trade at over $200 billion/year, which of the following three countries produce the most?. Answer: Russia, Canada, and the United States
Question: In 1996, Congress passed the Food Quality Protection Act, which allowed the EPA to. Answer: set limits on combined pesticide exposures
Question: Carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide are all. Answer: greenhouse gases
Question: The Earth's water is stored for long periods of time in. Answer: reservoirs
Question: CAFE Tier 2 standards reduced nitrous oxide emissions and. Answer: sulfur emissions
Question: Greenhouse gases are. Answer: a natural part of the atmosphere
Question: The measurement of the number of hydrogen ions in water is called. Answer: pH
Question: Pitchblende is another name for. Answer: uranium oxide
Question: Biofuels are primarily produced from. Answer: corn
Question: The IUCN focuses the bulk of its environmental efforts on all of the following, except. Answer: economic development of hotspots
Question: What percent of the world's population lives within 100 km of a coastline?. Answer: 50%
Question: Since heat moves from hotter to colder areas, the Earth's heat moves from its fiery center toward the. Answer: surface
Question: The average amount of time an element, like carbon or calcium, spends in a geological reservoir is known as. Answer: residence time
Question: Water held within plants returns to the atmosphere as a vapor through a process called. Answer: transpiration
Question: Infectious, pathological, and chemotherapy waste are types of. Answer: biological waste
Question: Where fresh river water joins salty ocean water, it is known as. Answer: brackish
Question: Reykjavik, Iceland's capital, is. Answer: heated completely by geothermal energy from volcanic sources
Question: What book, written by marine biologist Rachel Carson in 1962, warned of herbicide and pesticide hazards?. Answer: 
Question: Atmospheric gases blanketing the Earth exist in a mixture. What percent of this mixture is oxygen (by volume)?. Answer: 20%
Question: Africa, Antarctica, Australia, Eurasia, North America, and South America make up the. Answer: six major land masses
Question: Nitrogen's residence time in the environment is approximately. Answer: 400 million years
Question: The rule of 70 is used by researchers to estimate a population's. Answer: doubling time
Question: The biggest human-supplied gas to the greenhouse effect is. Answer: carbon dioxide
Question: The 1979 Hollywood movie The China Syndrome was about. Answer: nuclear power
Question: The law of horizontality describes. Answer: how older rock layers are deeper underground than younger layers
Question: When water soaks into the ground, it's called. Answer: infiltration
Question: What simple mode of power generation was once used to grind grain and pump water?. Answer: Wind
Question: Approximately how many people around the world depend on fuel wood as their main fuel source?. Answer: 1.5 billion
Question: The layer of rock that drifts slowly over the supporting, malleable, upper mantle layer is called. Answer: a geological plate
Question: What is thought to create the most greenhouse gases?. Answer: Burning of fossil fuels
Question: While 16% of stratospheric chlorine comes from natural sources, what percentage comes from human-made sources?. Answer: 84%
Question: When plants absorb carbon dioxide and sunlight to make glucose and build cellular structures, it is part of the. Answer: biological carbon cycle
Question: On a per capita basis, which country is the world's largest nuclear power producer?. Answer: France
Question: Pollutants from agriculture, storm runoff, lawn fertilizers, and sewer overflows are. Answer: nonpoint source
Question: Which process removes and stores atmospheric carbon in carbon sinks (e.g., oceans, forests) through physical and biological processes like photosynthesis?. Answer: Carbon sequestration
Question: An air current found between 10-14 km above the Earth's surface in the troposphere is the. Answer: jet stream
Question: Which gas is the second biggest additive to the greenhouse effect at around 20%?. Answer: Methane
Question: When flowing water creates electricity, it is called. Answer: hydroelectric power
Question: All the following are water pollution contaminants except. Answer: Coho salmon
Question: Tidal turbines driven by ocean currents are called. Answer: barrages
Question: Which of the following is a layer of the atmosphere?. Answer: Stratosphere
Question: When elemental isotopes are spun off and energy is emitted in the form of alpha, beta, and gamma particles, it is known as. Answer: radioactive decay
Question: How many oxygen atoms does ozone have?. Answer: 3
Question: What was used to light homes before the invention of the lightbulb in 1879?. Answer: Kerosene
Question: Point source and nonpoint source pollutants are important in which major environmental cycle?. Answer: Hydrology cycle
Question: Made of semiconducting materials, which one of these converts sunlight directly into electricity?. Answer: Photovoltaic cells
Question: Which of the following absorbs the greenhouse gas, carbon dioxide, in a big way?. Answer: Forests
Question: The annual thinning of the ozone layer (i.e., extremely low ozone levels) shows drops of over. Answer: 60%
Question: Most streams follow a branching drainage pattern, which is known as. Answer: dendritic drainage
Question: What are severe storms called in the Northwestern Pacific Ocean and Philippines?. Answer: Typhoons
Question: When harnessing wind power, propeller-like turbine blades are used to generate. Answer: electricity
Question: The Aurora Borealis and Aurora Australis are found in which atmospheric layer?. Answer: Thermosphere
Question: Getting more oil from a previously drilled deposit using other methods is called a. Answer: secondary recovery
Question: Acid rain has been measured in. Answer: all of the above
Question: Radioactive waste material, created by mining, includes. Answer: uranium dust
Question: Which of the following public reactions was not a result of the first Earth Day?. Answer: Impression that fossil fuels would last indefinitely
Question: Rainfall and streams on the east side of the Rocky Mountains drain to the Atlantic Ocean, while flowing water from the Rocky Mountain's western slopes runs to the. Answer: Pacific Ocean
Question: Global warming works a lot like. Answer: a greenhouse
Question: Of the 5,513 known species of mammals, what percent is currently vulnerable or endangered?. Answer: 22%
Question: The middle layer between the lower stratosphere and the thermosphere is called the. Answer: mesosphere
Question: Approximately how many streams has the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) counted in the United States?. Answer: 1.5 to 2 million
Question: What measures the rate of heat loss from exposed skin to the surrounding air?. Answer: Wind chill factor
Question: At the upper edge of the zone of saturation and the lower edge of the zone of aeration is the. Answer: water table
Question: The Mississippi River drains 320 million km2 of land area and is a. Answer: tenth-order stream
Question: The Mariana Trench (five times as deep as the Grand Canyon) is over. Answer: 11,000 meters deep
Question: Which atmospheric layer can reach temperatures of nearly 2,000°C?. Answer: Thermosphere
Question: In 1998, the United Nations declared the. Answer: International Year of the Ocean
Question: A Class 4 hurricane has winds measuring. Answer: 114 to 135 knots
Question: All the following characteristics describe r-adapted species except. Answer: long life
Question: If a population's growth is slow with low birth rates and low death rates, which demographic type would it describe?. Answer: Industrial
Question: When high levels of phosphates cause the overgrowth of aquatic plants and algae, high dissolved oxygen consumption, and fish death, it is called. Answer: eutrophication
Question: Which of the following is a disinfectant used in many water treatment plants?. Answer: Chlorine
Question: An earthquake that moves heavy furniture and is felt by everyone but has slight overall damage is measured on the Richter scale (refer to the table below asdf) as. Answer: 5.0 to 5.9
Question: Which of the following is the main energy or heat source for the ocean's food chain?. Answer: Sunlight
Question: The categories, extremely arid, arid, and semiarid, describe. Answer: deserts
Question: The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) gathered over 200 scientists and national experts to work together to help countries create. Answer: guidelines to atmospheric inventories across international borders
Question: Residence time is the. Answer: time water spends in the groundwater part of the hydrologic cycle
Question: The replacement birth rate is always. Answer: the number of children a couple needs to replace themselves in a population
Question: What weather process has become the "bad boy" of the world's weather shifts?. Answer: El Niño-Southern Oscillation
Question: Aquifers that lie beneath layers of impermeable clay are known as. Answer: confined aquifers
Question: Ozone has a distinctive odor and is. Answer: blue
Question: The bioprocess of taking DNA from one species and splicing it into the genetic material of another is known as. Answer: genetic engineering
Question: Pathogenic microorganisms cause. Answer: typhoid fever
Question: Globally, at least 1,000 insect species and 550 weed and plant pathogens have developed chemical resistance to. Answer: pesticides
Question: Which of the following is not known to cause water turbidity?. Answer: River rocks
Question: Cost-effective photovoltaic systems are great for remote cabins, and beach or vacation homes without. Answer: access to an electricity grid
Question: Water covers roughly what percent of Earth's surface?. Answer: 72%
Question: Evaporation occurs when. Answer: water changes from a liquid to a gas
Question: The amount of surface area needed to meet a population's needs and to dispose of its waste is its. Answer: ecological footprint
Question: A buildup of toxins in the tissues of predatory birds eating poisoned rodents and other small animals is an example of. Answer: bioaccumulation
Question: The boundary between two watersheds is called a. Answer: divide
Question: The two main ways geologists describe rock textures are grain size and. Answer: color
Question: Total organic carbon is used by hydrologists to. Answer: check the health of freshwater
Question: Circulating air and water patterns affected by the Earth's rotation are known as the. Answer: Coriolis effect
Question: Referring to the table below asdf, mercury and arsenic are in which class of pesticides?. Answer: Inorganic
Question: The rationale for protecting wilderness areas supports all the following except. Answer: increased water pollution
Question: Fecal coliform bacteria are naturally found in. Answer: feces and intestinal tracts of humans
Question: Which of the following factors is not used to classify deserts?. Answer: Volcanism
Question: Which greenhouse gas is about 145% higher now than it was in the 1800s?. Answer: Methane
Question: The three main rock types are sedimentary, metamorphic, and. Answer: igneous
Question: Volcanoes form when vents rise to the surface from a. Answer: magma chamber
Question: The atmosphere is divided into four layers: troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and. Answer: thermosphere
Question: The amount, distribution, and movement of water on, in, and above the Earth is known as. Answer: hydrology
Question: Using the figure below asdf, what three main processes are involved when sedimentary rock becomes igneous rock?. Answer: Metamorphism, melting, and crystallization
Question: The first colonizers to a location are called. Answer: pioneer species
Question: Using the figure below asdf, which life span type shows fairly steady birth and death rates all through life?. Answer: B
Question: When pesticides build up in the tissues of organisms, it is known as. Answer: bioaccumulation
Question: Of the 1,950,000 acres of redwood forest growing in the western United States, what percentage of the original old growth remains?. Answer: 5%
Question: Clean boundaries, people working together to preserve scarce resources, resource monitoring, and compliance incentives are all important factors in. Answer: communal resource management
Question: In 1956, Shell Oil geophysicist, M. King Hubbert calculated that. Answer: conventional oil extraction in the United States would peak in 1970
Question: Although nuclear power is reliable, _________ is a critical public concern.. Answer: safety
Question: What kind of vehicles offer a modern, low-pollutant transportation option?. Answer: Hybrid gas-electric cars
Question: Using the figure below asdf, approximately what year did carbon dioxide (CO2) concentration (ppmv) reach 360?. Answer: 2000
Question: Volcanoes formed away from plate boundaries are often the result of geological. Answer: hot spots
Question: Using the table below asdf, at what wind speed (km/hr) will an outside temperature of -10°C feel like -24°C?. Answer: 70
Question: Fairly clean wastewater from homes or businesses (e.g., bathwater, washing machines, sinks) is known as. Answer: graywater
Question: All of the following are physical rock weathering characteristics except. Answer: desertification
Question: Small leafy plants growing in the permafrost soil are found in which biome?. Answer: Tundra
Question: When populations increase rapidly before lack of resources, space, or disease stop them, it is called. Answer: exponential growth
Question: Inert pesticide ingredients, often not listed on a product's label, are used to. Answer: dilute or transport active chemicals
Question: What is the largest desert by area (km2) on the planet?. Answer: Sahara
Question: All of the following urban growth factors are important in sustainable land use except. Answer: increasing individual ecological footprints
Question: What is the biggest single source of human-created air pollution in the industrialized world?. Answer: Fossil fuel burning
Question: The world's largest nuclear power plant is located in. Answer: Japan
Question: Using the figure below asdf, what percentage of the world's energy choices comes from the burning of plants (biomass)?. Answer: 10%
Question: With increasing city aerosols and dust in the atmosphere, cities like Houston, Texas have a high number of _________ compared to other areas of the United States.. Answer: lightning strikes
Question: Urban smog, a major atmospheric pollutant is composed primarily of nitrogen oxide, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and. Answer: particulates
Question: When organic matter decomposes in landfills, it produces mainly carbon dioxide (CO2) and. Answer: methane
Question: When pressure builds between two tectonic plates, it will eventually crack and release accumulated stress. This is called a. Answer: fault plane
Question: Weather scientists measure atmospheric pressure with a(n). Answer: barometer
Question: Coastal Cleanup Day, established by the Ocean Conservancy nonprofit is intended to reduce _______________ on beaches.. Answer: all of the above
Question: Oxidation, hydrolysis, and acid action are all types of. Answer: chemical weathering
Question: A population's total genetic makeup is called. Answer: gene pool
Question: The combination of all producers and consumers is called a(n). Answer: ecological pyramid
Question: Using the figure below asdf, which of the following statements is not true of Population A?. Answer: Adolescent age levels are higher than those in Population B
Question: Monitoring and mitigating bycatch is a very important part of. Answer: sustainable fisheries management
Question: Solids, liquids, and gases created through compression of ancient organic plants and animal materials are known as. Answer: fossil fuels
Question: A solar photovoltaic (PV) reaction cell converts ________________ into energy.. Answer: sunlight
Question: Land clearing and fossil fuel combustion significantly raise atmospheric concentrations of. Answer: soot
Question: Using the table below asdf (Fujita Wind Damage scale), a devastating type of tornado is rated as. Answer: F4
Question: The Jurassic Period is found in which geological time era?. Answer: Mesozoic
Question: What key factor is most important in naming major soil types?. Answer: Rainfall amount
Question: When one species benefits and one species is harmed, it is called. Answer: parasitism
Question: Large amounts of the Earth's carbon is stored in all the following reservoirs except. Answer: meteorites (iron/nickel)
Question: All of the following are density dependent population factors except. Answer: drought
Question: Raising different fish species together is called. Answer: polyculture
Question: Loose soil and less plant growth affect all the following except. Answer: construction prices
Question: According to the table below asdf, which country had the highest ecological footprint in 2017?. Answer: United States
Question: Most historians and ecologist believe the discovery and use of kerosene save which group from extinction?. Answer: Whale
Question: Which of the following electromagnetic radiation types with no overall charge and a shorter wavelength are separated with a magnetic field?. Answer: Gamma particles
Question: Wood, corn, charcoal, manure, and sugar cane are all used for. Answer: biofuel
Question: Since pure water is only found in a laboratory and fish need dissolved oxygen to survive, what do hydrologists test when checking the health of fresh water?. Answer: Total organic carbon (TOC)
Question: The boundary between two watershed areas is called a. Answer: divide
Question: Drought-prone areas on the margin of wind pathways are more susceptible to. Answer: dune advance
Question: The following are all ecological management options except. Answer: desertification
Question: All of the following are water treatment methods except. Answer: flatulence
Question: The Clean Air Act addresses all the following air pollutants except. Answer: aerosols (disease carrying)
Question: Using the table below asdf, which effects best describe a magnitude 6.4 earthquake?. Answer: Great damage; well-designed buildings jerked sideways and partially collapsed
Question: The first phase in the formation of a hurricane is called a(n). Answer: tropical depression
Question: Using the table below asdf, water is stored for about 8-10 days in. Answer: the atmosphere
Question: The pedocal, pedalfer, and laterite are the three basic. Answer: soil types
Question: When an existing community is disrupted by wildfire and must begin again, it is called. Answer: secondary succession
Question: All the water in the atmosphere and on the Earth's surface is combined to form the. Answer: hydrosphere
Question: Because of population growth, which of the following groups have impacted the Earth's resources more than any other?. Answer: Humans
Question: All the following cause pesticides to have a deleterious environmental impact except. Answer: freeze fracturing
Question: Trade and exploitation most often leave land restoration in the hands of. Answer: local people with little funding
Question: What percentage of aluminum beverage cans are recycled in the United States?. Answer: 70%
Question: Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) is a hotly debated oil reserve area due to its. Answer: pristine environment and habitats
Question: Since most US nuclear power plants are in the eastern United States and storage is available in the west, what is the biggest concern regarding radioactive waste?. Answer: Transportation
Question: Large, high-tech turbines on tall (64.6 meter) towers produce electricity from. Answer: wind
Question: Using the figure below asdf, what is the approximate LD50 dose (PPM) of the illustrated pollutant?. Answer: 13
Question: A worldwide shift northward in species' habitats and migrations by ~6.1 km/year has been attributed to. Answer: climate change
Question: Pacific Ocean sea surface temperature changes of greater than 0.5°C for longer than five months are known as. Answer: El Niño-Southern Oscillation
Question: Rocks break down in all of the following ways except. Answer: melting in the sun
Question: All the following are important isolating factors in forming ecological hot spots except. Answer: recreational parks and spas
Question: Using the figure below asdf, organic biomass is made available to crops through nitrification and. Answer: leaching
Question: K-adapted species are described by most of the following characteristics except. Answer: prey
Question: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) enforce Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations and have the authority to. Answer: destroy any pesticide shipments in violation of EPA limits
Question: For centuries, native people have protected land resources with crop rotation and. Answer: nomadic herding
Question: The Environmental Protection Act lists over _________ toxic air pollutants released yearly from U.S. mining operations.. Answer: 100
Question: The First Law of Thermodynamics states. Answer: energy cannot be created or destroyed
Question: The creation of the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) set. Answer: guidelines for nuclear power plant operations and communications
Question: Using the table below asdf, which of the following sounds is closest in its decibel level to an operating wind turbine?. Answer: Normal conversation
Question: What is a positive use of radioactive elements?. Answer: Detection of disease
Question: The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) was created to protect all the following except. Answer: real estate values
Question: What is the smallest physical form of rocks?. Answer: Dust
Question: Extinct species like the Dodo or Moa birds lost their defenses over time because of. Answer: isolation
Question: When calcium and carbon are taken up and stored by marine creatures during shell building, it is done through. Answer: biomineralization
Question: Of the inert pesticide ingredients examined in the Food Quality Protection Act, what percentage has been identified by the EPA as carcinogens, occupational hazards, and air/water pollutants?. Answer: 50%
Question: One unexpected negative of better water treatment is. Answer: increased population growth and urban ecological footprint
Question: What country is the biggest supplier of crude oil to the United States?. Answer: Canada
Question: Which of the following nuclear power characteristics is most useful?. Answer: Electricity generation
Question: Which energy source gives off steam as its only waste product?. Answer: Hydrogen cell
Question: In the United States, what federal agency protects workers from noise pollution?. Answer: Occupational Safety and Health Agency (OSHA)
Question: Which of the following biological or physical characteristics are not collected by remote sensing instruments?. Answer: Plant specimens
Question: All the following are important water conservation methods except. Answer: oscillating sprinkler systems
Question: A place where water is stored for some period of time (e.g., atmosphere, ocean, or underground) is called a. Answer: reservoir
Question: Using the table below asdf on population distribution, which continent has the lowest population percentage of the world's total?. Answer: North America
Question: When gas and oil are extracted from shale by drilling and injecting water to open tight rock formations, it is called. Answer: fracking
Question: Most commercial aircraft travel takes place in the lower part of the. Answer: stratosphere
Question: Hazardous waste is all the following except. Answer: nontoxic
Question: When rain has no time to evaporate, transpire, or move into groundwater reserves, it becomes. Answer: runoff
Question: To conserve water, major U.S. cities require new building construction to use. Answer: water-saving toilets
Question: Societies in stage 2 of the demographic transition model are often. Answer: agricultural societies with decreasing death rates
Question: The Mexican/U.S. border culture region is best defined as. Answer: a formal region
Question: All of the following may be reasons behind forced migration EXCEPT. Answer: lack of employment opportunities
Question: An instance of contagious diffusion can be seen in the way that. Answer: the British brought soccer to rural Argentina through their railroad lines
Question: The type of religious architecture that does NOT have a common design style is. Answer: Jewish synagogues
Question: The Dependency Ratio describes. Answer: the number of people too young or old to work compared to the number of people in the work force
Question: On certain maps, the shape of Greenland is accurate, but the size of the island appears to be larger than South America. The name of this intentional distortion is called a(n). Answer: Mercator projection
Question: An optimal TFR for a society is 2.1. The TFR of many Western European countries ranges from 1.4 to 1.8. In those countries, this subreplacement fertility rate has been largely offset by. Answer: increased immigration
Question: An example of cultural synthesis would be. Answer: the creation of a new style of music from the traditions of two separate groups of immigrant colonizers
Question: All of the following are true about the geographic center and the population-weighted centroid of a country EXCEPT. Answer: Canada is the only country in which both occupy the same point
Question: Push factors that result in migration away from rural agriculture include all of the following EXCEPT. Answer: better opportunity for employment in urban areas
Question: Which of the following styles is associated with houses having one long pitched roof in front and a low-angle roof in back?. Answer: Saltbox
Question: The main reason that the catastrophe predicted by Thomas Malthus hasn't occurred yet is. Answer: the invention of agricultural technology boosted the value of food production
Question: Which system of land division relies on the use of natural landscape features?. Answer: Metes and bounds
Question: One of the first uses of remote-sensing technology was to. Answer: provide intelligence regarding Soviet arms during the Cold War
Question: Zero population growth occurs when. Answer: the birth rate is equal to the death rate
Question: The type of map that would best describe the massive human migration that followed the partition of India in 1947 would be. Answer: a flow-line map
Question: Contemporary architecture typically features all of the following EXCEPT. Answer: symmetrical design
Question: All of the following are examples of Creole societies EXCEPT. Answer: Argentina
Question: A lingua franca refers to. Answer: any language that is used as a bridge between speakers whose native languages are different
Question: The Basque people, who live in both Spain and France and who speak their own ancient language called Euskadi, would be described as an example of. Answer: a stateless nation
Question: According to the Heartland-Rimland model, a region with a strong agricultural belt would also have. Answer: a predatory neighboring state eager to grab the fertile territory
Question: Which of the following is NOT a primary purpose of the European Union?. Answer: Reduce the threats of terror cells in member countries
Question: All of the following are examples of products from appellations of origins EXCEPT. Answer: pizza from Naples
Question: Allocational border disputes occur when. Answer: a resource lies on two sides of a border
Question: The border system for oceanic boundaries is divided into. Answer: territorial seas and the Exclusive Economic Zone
Question: All of the following are signs of negative RNI (rate of natural increase) EXCEPT. Answer: an increased rate of immigration
Question: An example of annexation is. Answer: Thomas Jefferson's Louisiana Purchase
Question: The border between India and Pakistan, a country that was formed during the Partition of 1947, would be an example of a type of boundary that is. Answer: superimposed
Question: North Korea is one of the few remaining examples of a. Answer: Marxist-socialist planned economy
Question: All of the following would be examples of places with sequent occupancy EXCEPT. Answer: Sweden
Question: During which stage of the demographic transition model does the diffusion of fertility control begin to play a significant role?. Answer: 3
Question: Minarets are prominent in the architecture associated with which of the following religions?. Answer: Islam
Question: . Answer: their respective rates of growth
Question: Central place theory is most obviously expressed in. Answer: a city market's location at a transportation node
Question: Which of the following requires a lot of labor, focuses on a small plot of land, or both?. Answer: Intensive agriculture
Question: All of the following can contribute to desertification EXCEPT. Answer: slash and burn agriculture
Question: Which of the following was introduced to the Old World as part of the Columbian exchange?. Answer: Peanuts
Question: The concept of transhumance is associated with. Answer: hunting and gathering societies
Question: All of the following characteristics mark the Third Agricultural Revolution EXCEPT. Answer: the invention of artificial chemical fertilizers and pesticides
Question: Subsistence agriculture is LEAST likely to be. Answer: marked by high amounts of labor inputs
Question: According to von Thünen's model, land use is defined primarily by. Answer: an inverse relationship between the value of the labor and the distance from the center of town
Question: Which of the following refers to the minimum number of people required to support a business?. Answer: Threshold
Question: A megacity is defined as a metropolitan area with a population greater than. Answer: 10 million
Question: All of the following are consequences of urban transportation EXCEPT. Answer: increased access to mass transit
Question: One advantage of the sector model over other models of urban structure is that. Answer: it incorporates both industrial corridors and ethnic neighborhoods
Question: A major difference between an Anglo-American city and a Latin American city is. Answer: the poor are located in the inner city in Anglo-American cities, while in Latin American cities, they're located at the outer periphery
Question: An edge city contains which of the following?. Answer: Much retail space, weak city government, high daytime population
Question: The gravity model of human geography estimates the strength of the relationship between two places. What is it that causes Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (population: 11 million) to have a greater gravity with Belo Horizonte, Brazil (2 million) than with New York City (20 million)?. Answer: Their distance apart
Question: In the bid-rent curve, it is expected that as the distance from the PLVI decreases. Answer: the price of land increases
Question: According to the chart above, Santiago contains nearly ten times as many people as the next biggest city. It can be concluded from this that Santiago must be. Answer: a primate city
Question: The garden city movement, which pioneered planned developments with detached single-family homes, was the beginning of the growth of. Answer: suburbia
Question: Which of the following was NOT a method by which segregation was enacted in neighborhoods?. Answer: Federal fair-housing laws
Question: Which stage of production is concerned with activities such as finance and banking?. Answer: Quarternary
Question: According to Wallerstein's world systems theory, which of the following would be true?. Answer: Core countries are the most economically developed and powerful.
Question: The most important reason for the rising use of alternative energy crops such as ethanol and biodiesel has been. Answer: the rapid increase in the price of oil
Question: All of the following are Old Asian Tigers EXCEPT. Answer: China
Question: Which of the following includes only aspects of tertiary production?. Answer: Transportation, wholesaling, retailing
Question: The links between producers and consumers in the production and distribution of goods are known as. Answer: commodity chains
Question: One of the problems with using the terms First World, Second World, and Third World to describe countries is that. Answer: the terms are slightly misleading, since Second-World countries are not necessarily between First- and Third-World countries, but instead are communist centrally planned economies
Question: Rostow's theory of stages of growth fails to take into account all of the following EXCEPT. Answer: a set of preconditions needed to transition from an agricultural to a manufacturing economy
Question: Software development, customer-service call centers, and corporate headquarters are all examples of. Answer: activities that aren't tied to any specific location
Question: Which of the following is NOT a characteristic of the modern service economy?. Answer: The creation of both durable and non-durable goods
Question: The difference between GDP (gross domestic product) and GNI (gross national income) is. Answer: GDP considers goods and services, but GNI also considers exports and imports
Question: Since the 1950s, suburbia has been the predominant model of American life. Its growth can be LEAST attributed to. Answer: the existence of growth boundaries
Question: The Altaic language family encompasses both. Answer: Turkish and Mongolian
Question: All of the following are complaints about First-World transnational corporations EXCEPT. Answer: their desire to invest in modern technological equipment and worker training
Question: The reasons for massive influx of foreign manufacturing to China in the 1990s and 2000s includes all of the following EXCEPT. Answer: competition from domestic Chinese companies
Question: The quaternary sector of the economy includes. Answer: financial analysis
Question: Which of the following is NOT a common criticism of Rostow's theory of the stages of growth?. Answer: Not all societies have a comparative advantage in international trade.
Question: A developing country is experiencing a shortage of socks. Instead of purchasing socks that were manufactured in a developed country, this developing country could best help itself accumulate capital by. Answer: building a locally owned factory to manufacture its own socks
Question: Tourism plays the most vital role in the economy of which of the following regions?. Answer: The Caribbean
Question: The graphs above illustrate the consequences of which of the following events in agricultural history?. Answer: The Green Revolution
Question: Which of the following statements can be best concluded from the graphs?. Answer: It is difficult for the geography of the Middle East and northern Africa to support the cultivation of rice.
Question: The Abrahamic tradition is most distinct from the Hindu-Buddhist tradition in. Answer: the difference between monotheism and polytheism
Question: The sharp increase in the rate of wheat production in most parts of the developing world can be attributed primarily to the efforts of which of the following people?. Answer: Norman Borlaug
Question: A command economy is marked by all of the following EXCEPT. Answer: private ownership of capital
Question: One important characteristic of a bulk-reducing industry is. Answer: its factories, which tend to be located close to its inputs
Question: Larry Ford and Ernest Griffin were pioneers of. Answer: Latin American city model
Question: The process of adjusting the legislative representation of a county after it loses population is called. Answer: reapportionment
Question: Nazi Germany's claim on Sudetenland of Czechoslovakia is an example of. Answer: irredentism
Question: The articles in the document above describe a political framework typical of most republics known as. Answer: separation of powers
Question: As a percentage of total national power, alternative forms of energy are being used with the most success in which of the following nations?. Answer: Germany (solar); Spain (wind); France (nuclear)
Question: In 2005, a constitution with similar provisions failed to be ratified by which of the following groups?. Answer: The European Union
Question: To calculate the rate of natural increase (RNI), the difference between what two factors should be divided by ten?. Answer: The death rate and the birth rate
Question: North Carolina's Research Triangle consists of three major scientific research universities and is home to numerous high-tech companies. This region is known as a. Answer: technopole
Question: According to the rank-size rule, in a country whose largest city contains 800,000 people, its fourth-largest city contains. Answer: 200,000 people
Question: A negative rate of natural increase can often be seen in societies that. Answer: have suffered a devastating war
Question: All of the following are reasons for American suburbanization in the 1950s EXCEPT. Answer: increased use of freight trains for industrial transportation
Question: An example of a fuzzy cultural border would be. Answer: where Dixie ends and the American Northeast or Midwest begins
Question: The headwear portrayed in the photo is best interpreted as. Answer: a strict interpretation of cultural rules governing modest dress
Question: The prohibition of the niqāb by France is an example of. Answer: a denial of cultural diffusion
Question: The Kashmir region of India is primarily known for. Answer: its postcolonial frontier border dispute
Question: An identifiable land area is known as a. Answer: country
Question: All of the following are policies or programs that attempt to increase capital accumulation within Third World economies EXCEPT. Answer: Export substitution
Question: Which of the following is a monotheistic religion?. Answer: Islam
Question: A primary problem with a communist system of agriculture, as compared to the capitalist system, is that. Answer: there is no incentive to produce over a quota
Question: Stage Four of the Demographic Transition Model is characterized by. Answer: a service-based economy
Question: All of the following are considered examples of a life-course change EXCEPT. Answer: Going on vacation to Florida
Question: The language with the greatest number of native speakers in the world is. Answer: Mandarin
Question: It can be most logically concluded from the graph that. Answer: when compared with the amount of emissions from buses and trains, there is no substantial difference between the amount of emissions from hybrid, diesel, or gasoline automobiles
Question: An increase in transportation emissions is most closely correlated with. Answer: an increase in per capita income
Question: A small-scale farmer who successfully survived the farm crisis in rural areas would NOT have. Answer: switched from a diverse range of crops to corn-and-soybean monoculture
Question: During the Columbian exchange, which one of the following products found its way from the Old World to the New World?. Answer: Citrus
Question: All of the following are examples of a centrifugal force EXCEPT. Answer: the success of the U.S
Question: What effect did the publication of The Communist Manifesto have upon Russian agriculture?. Answer: The eventual collectivization of farms by the Soviet system
Question: Which of the following is NOT an example of a universalizing religion?. Answer: Hinduism
Question: There have been three major periods of immigration to the United States: 1840-1850, 1880-1924, and 1965-present. Which of the following, arranged in chronological order, represents the primary immigrant groups of each period?. Answer: Irish and Germans; Eastern and Southern Europeans; Chinese, Indian, and Mexican
Question: The Know-Nothing party is an example of what common political reaction to large-scale immigration?. Answer: nativism
Question: Within the Demographic Transition Model, the difference between migration in Stage 2 societies and migration in Stage 4 societies is that. Answer: Stage 2 migrants tend to migrate internationally to developed countries, whereas Stage 4 migrants tend to migrate internally
Question: The North and South Poles are. Answer: 90° latitude
Question: Which of the following has NOT been suggested as a cause of the rise of democracy in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries?. Answer: Wealth from petroleum
Question: The Arab Spring of 2011. Answer: supports the depicted trend, because it represented the outbreak of the demand for democratic rights in an autocratic region
Question: The workers who survived the Black Plague, which killed nearly a third of European population, ironically saw their wages rise in later years. This phenomenon is best explained by. Answer: the iron law of wages
Question: When the largest city in a country has at least twice the population of the country's next largest city, it can be designated as a(n). Answer: primate city
Question: The trend depicted in the graph has been challenged in recent years by. Answer: a sudden uptick in the number of countries embracing autocracy
Question: The United Nations developed a metric by which the health of a nation can be judged. It measures standard of living, longevity, and access to education. The name of this metric is. Answer: the Human Development Index
Question: Geographers define place as. Answer: an area of bounded space of some human importance
Question: Compared with the Indo-Iranian language family branch, the Romance language family branch is. Answer: less numerous
Question: According to Figure 2, the majority of the world's population is. Answer: living in urban areas of any size
Question: The contradiction that can be best drawn from both Figures 1 and 2 is that. Answer: while megacities account for the largest individual urban populations, the number of people living in megacities is actually less than the number of people living in smaller categories of cities
Question: From a linguistic perspective, the birth of modern English is typically dated to which year?. Answer: 1066 c.e.
Question: According to the Demographic Transition Model, which of the following is NOT a cause of the decreased death rate in Stage 2 societies?. Answer: increased physical labor
Question: Which of the following is an example of agricultural biotechnology?. Answer: genetically modified soybean oil
Question: From a production perspective, the biggest challenge to modern popular consumer culture is. Answer: the amount of waste that it generates
Question: India has an RNI (rate of natural increase) of 1.09 percent. This results in a population doubling time of approximately. Answer: 64 years
Question: Which of the following is NOT a typical consequence of "impressive initial advances in health care" such as the ones seen in Cuba?. Answer: Higher health care costs
Question: The "productivity levels required for sustained growth" in the final paragraph implies that. Answer: according to the Demographic Transition Model, Cuba was attempting to move from a Stage 2 to a Stage 3 society
Question: One problem with conformal projection maps of the earth, such as the Mercator, is that they distort. Answer: the relative area of one part of the map to another
Question: In the last five hundred years, the island of Taiwan has received various waves of invasive settlements, from the Dutch to the Spanish to the Han Chinese to the Japanese. This phenomenon is collectively known as. Answer: sequent occupancy
Question: All of the following are examples of formal regions EXCEPT. Answer: an area whose inhabitants are clustered around the same central business district
Question: The demographic transition model states that stage 3 societies differ from stage 2 societies primarily in that. Answer: a stage 3 birth rate is decreasing, not increasing
Question: Countries that are near or below zero population growth will often. Answer: offer incentives to citizens to have more children
Question: . Answer: western Europe
Question: An example of cyclic movement is. Answer: a Polish woman working as a housekeeper in Ireland each summer
Question: Which of the following conclusions can be drawn from Figure 1?. Answer: Most of the biggest megacities in the world are found in Asia.
Question: An example of an officially multilingual society is. Answer: Bolivia
Question: A Bangladeshi immigrant to France, who has limited grammar and few vocabulary words in French, speaks a. Answer: pidgin
Question: The cities circled on the map all share which of the following characteristics?. Answer: All have sizable indigenous populations.
Question: The regions inside the squares on the map all share which of the following characteristics?. Answer: Estuaries
Question: The triangular region on the map has been facing which of the following challenges in recent years?. Answer: Ecological degradation
Question: The influence of German music upon the norte?o, ranchera, and banda forms of music in northern Mexico is an example of. Answer: relocation diffusion
Question: All of the following are differences between monotheistic and polytheistic traditions EXCEPT. Answer: monotheistic traditions maintain an egalitarian structure, while polytheistic traditions maintain a hierarchical structure
Question: The difference between a site and a situation is defined as the difference between. Answer: the physical characteristics of a place versus the interconnectedness of that place with other places
Question: In 1920, what was the primary obstacle preventing lower-class people living in Zone 3 from moving to Zone 4?. Answer: Cost of transportation
Question: If this urban model of Baltimore in 1920 were placed next to an urban model of Baltimore in 2020, which of the following changes would be evident during those one hundred years?. Answer: Zone 5 would have grown in real population.
Question: It can be concluded that the behavior of "the upper and middle sectors" alluded to in the passage was most affected by which of the following?. Answer: push and pull factors
Question: Unlike the concentric zone model above, the sector model of urban structure takes into account which of the following factors?. Answer: Ethnicity
Question: The scientific idea that a culture's physical traits are decided by the physical geography of its hearth region is known as. Answer: environmental determinism
Question: The concept of sequent occupance is best illustrated by which of the following situations?. Answer: The discovery by construction workers in Rome of previously unknown ancient ruins
Question: The perception of Mexicans as wearing large sombreros and eating tacos is an example of Mexico as a(n). Answer: vernacular region
Question: According to the bar graph, total population is projected to increase the most in which region?. Answer: There is not enough information to determine.
Question: Instead of a bar graph, what type of graphic would more accurately describe the demographic makeup of these regions?. Answer: population pyramids
Question: Given the fact that 55% of the global population now lives in cities, which of the following statements can be safely assumed?. Answer: The most typical human profile is a person who lives in a city in Asia or Oceania.
Question: In the United States in the 1830s, the change in land survey patterns from a traditional system of metes and bounds to a rectilinear township and range system was the result of. Answer: new surveying tools derived from seafaring technology
Question: The above is an example of a. Answer: graduated symbol map
Question: The spread of the influenza is most analogous to. Answer: contagious diffusion
Question: Two neighboring villages with populations of 300 and 400 are separated by 10 miles. What is their gravity model?. Answer: 1,200
Question: GIS (Geographic Information Systems) would be LEAST useful in which of the following situations?. Answer: Plotting the effects of an economic crash on immigration
Question: In the United States, the process of suburbanization that has occurred since the 1950s has resulted in all of the following EXCEPT. Answer: a greater sense of community
Question: The heartland theory holds that. Answer: Eurasia is the core of global influence owing to its size, population, and resources
Question: The type of world order in which one state is dominant over the others, issuing orders for allies to follow instead of pursuing a joint decision-making process, is known as. Answer: unilateralism
Question: The "tragedy of the commons" is best exemplified by which of the following situations?. Answer: Degrading land as a result of too many individuals grazing their livestock on publicly held pasture
Question: One consequence of the Soviet collectivization of farmland was. Answer: a lack of surplus food
Question: In history, the rice farmers of Southeast Asia and the farmers of the Andes both increased crop yield by utilizing. Answer: terrace farming
Question: When the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund make "structural adjustment loans" to a country, those loans are often accompanied by requests. Answer: to open that country to outside trade and investment
Question: The primary economic difference between urban and rural areas is that. Answer: urban areas are built upon services, while rural communities are built upon resources
Question: The spinning jenny, power loom, and steam engine were inventions of. Answer: the First Industrial Revolution
Question: Which of the following has NOT been a challenge to pastoral nomadic herders?. Answer: Reduced numbers of livestock
Question: The primary reason that "First World/Second World/Third World" terminology is being replaced by "developing country/developed country" terminology is that. Answer: the former describes a world defined by the Cold War
Question: One common characteristic of FTZs (free-trade zones) is that they are. Answer: organized around seaports, airports, and national frontiers
Question: In places like Kenya and Ethiopia, all of the following accelerate the process of desertification EXCEPT. Answer: the planting of trees
Question: Groups such as Doctors Without Borders, the World Wildlife Fund, and Heifer International provide relief and policy advocacy in foreign countries, often using funds raised from private philanthropy. These groups are examples of. Answer: international non-governmental organizations
Question: In the field of high-tech services, the primary advantage that India enjoys over other nations is. Answer: its English language heritage owing to its colonial past
Question: The economic indicator GNI (Gross National Income) attempts to correct GDP (Gross Domestic Product) by. Answer: taking into account the dollar value of exports minus imports
Question: The least cost theory, which tries to explain the location of manufacturing establishments, takes into account which of the following three factors?. Answer: Labor, transportation, agglomeration
Question: A rural feed and farm supply store often draws customers from up to 100 miles away. This indicates that the business has a very high. Answer: range
Question: The difference between buying a single hot dog at the corner convenience store, a pack of six hot dogs at the nearest grocery store, and a case of forty-eight hot dogs at a faraway big-box retail outlet is the difference in. Answer: urban hierarchy
Question: The difference between the close clustering of rural communities in New England and the wide dispersal of rural communities in the Great Plains is best explained by. Answer: the different level of ethnic and family ties that existed in each region prior to settlement
Question: A diamond-cutting company that employs four different workers, and whose only physical need is four machines on a table, can be regarded as part of. Answer: a footloose industry
Question: Investors in the United States and Canada view which of the following as the best potential investments?. Answer: Service products
Question: Unlike other models of urban structure, the multiple-nuclei model. Answer: admits that there is often more than one commercial center in a city
Question: The set of Spanish colonial codes that specifically required all towns to be centered around a plaza was. Answer: the Laws of the Indies
Question: One important difference between real estate laws in Latin America and real estate laws in the United States is that in Latin America. Answer: idle land can be legally squatted upon if residents use it
Question: The difference between the two religious structures is the difference between. Answer: medieval and modern design
Question: These religious structures do NOT share which of the following characteristics?. Answer: Symmetry and perpendicularity
Question: Megacities in the developing world, such as S?o Paulo, Brazil, share all of the following characteristics EXCEPT. Answer: a military presence in the central business district
Question: In 2004, General Motors relocated its world headquarters from suburban Detroit to downtown Detroit. In 2018, McDonald's relocated its world headquarters from suburban Chicago to downtown Chicago. These decisions can best be seen to signify. Answer: a renewed interest from American companies in the central business district
Question: Taking a cruise to the Galapagos Islands for the purpose of seeing its exotic wildlife during limited shore excursions can be classified as. Answer: ecotourism
Question: A person who takes a bus to a subway to an airport for a flight has experienced several. Answer: intermodal connections
Question: Which of the following lists includes Chinese innovations that were brought to Europe?. Answer: Porcelain, compass, paper, gunpowder
Question: An "ecotone" can best be described as. Answer: the environmental transition zone between two biomes
Question: All of the following countries are examples of constitutional monarchies EXCEPT. Answer: Portugal
Question: The practice of planting two crops consecutively on a single plot each year is referred to as. Answer: double cropping
Question: Which of the following is NOT a weight-gaining industry?. Answer: Steel manufacturing
Question: A place on the map that is defined by coordinates of longitude or latitude is a(n). Answer: absolute location
Question: The precise location of retail services is spatially dependent on the relationship between. Answer: variable cost and revenue surfaces
Question: The market area of a city is defined by both. Answer: threshold and range
Question: The Human Development Index was designed to. Answer: measure the level of development of states based on social indicators and economic production
Question: Furniture requires parts to be assembled into components that are then assembled together to create a larger finished product. In this regard, furniture is an example of a. Answer: supply chain
Question: Which of the regions on the map would contain the Piedmont Industrial Region?. Answer: C
Question: Locations on the map that are marked with a ▲ are. Answer: manufacturing regions in more-developed countries
Question: Which of the regions on the map contain areas that would be a cultural hub of Cajun and Zydeco influences?. Answer: B
Question: Tibet, Nepal, and Bhutan share commonalities in cultural landscape features such as architecture due to the influence of. Answer: Buddhism
Question: Which of the following is true of the United States and Australia?. Answer: They are in the same linguistic region.
Question: All of the following statements are true of Mexico and Malaysia EXCEPT that both. Answer: are in stage 4 of the demographic transition model
Question: Which of the following is NOT associated with the quaternary stage of production of goods and services?. Answer: Manufacturing
Question: Nonrenewable resources include. Answer: petroleum and natural gas
Question: A port location where foreign firms are given special tax privileges to incentivize trade is known as a(n). Answer: export processing zone
Question: Which of the following models best represents the post-industrial city with its several, dispersed business districts?. Answer: Galactic city
Question: The primary reason that humanity has been able to escape the Malthusian trap is. Answer: improved agricultural technology
Question: The Total Fertility Rate is the estimated average number of children born to each female aged. Answer: 15–55
Question: If the Rate of Natural Increase (RNI) for the United States is 4.25, approximately how many years would it take for the United States to double its population?. Answer: 16.5
Question: ___________ diffusion occurs when an innovation occurs in a central place and then expands outwards in all directions to other locations.. Answer: Expansion
Question: All of the following underwent balkanization EXCEPT. Answer: Mongolia
Question: The provided images would best be described as. Answer: population pyramids
Question: Diagram E represents a country that is experiencing. Answer: fast growth
Question: Which diagram would best exemplify a country that is in stage 1 of the demographic transition model?. Answer: B
Question: The concept that the living space for each distinct nation is based upon the optimal physical geography of a culture group is known as. Answer: 
Question: All of the following countries are considered New Asian Tigers and received development funding through Foreign Direct Investment EXCEPT. Answer: Japan
Question: A population under a single government is best defined as a. Answer: state
Question: The racist method of real estate agents encouraging white homeowners to sell their homes at a loss by implying that minorities were moving in is known as. Answer: blockbusting
Question: Which of the following is NOT considered a plantation crop?. Answer: Pistachios
Question: An operational border dispute occurs when. Answer: borders are agreed to, but passage across the border is a problem
Question: What percent of the world's freshwater is used in irrigation agriculture worldwide?. Answer: 75%
Question: Which of the following is NOT a potential consequence of gerrymandering?. Answer: Both minority and majority parties are equally represented.
Question: The diplomatic meeting between European colonial powers to set the internal political boundaries in Africa. Answer: is referred to as the Conference of Berlin
Question: Primary production, which includes agriculture, mining, and forestry, consists of. Answer: activities that include the extraction of natural resources from the earth
Question: The number of immigrants minus the number of emigrants for every thousand members of the population is known as the. Answer: net migration rate
Question: Specific things about the rural agricultural landscape and livelihood that force people off the farm are known as. Answer: push factors
Question: Which of the following is NOT a characteristic of newly industrialized countries (NICs)?. Answer: NICs have high birth rates and high death rates.
Question: According to the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Seas (UNCLOS), sovereign territory that includes the area of the sea from the shore out to the 12-nautical-mile limit is referred to as. Answer: the territorial sea
Question: The curved strip of arable land that connects Mesopotamia and Egypt through to the Levant is known as. Answer: the Fertile Crescent
Question: This model of urban structure is known as the. Answer: sector model
Question: In which region does middle-class housing exist?. Answer: 4
Question: In the United States, crops and animals that must not be grown using genetic engineering, must be free of pesticides, antibiotics, and synthetic hormones, and must feed on completely organic crops are classified as. Answer: organic
Question: Which of the following is a list of microstates?. Answer: Andorra, Liechtenstein, and St
Question: The North Atlantic Treaty Organization is a supranational organization that is primarily concerned with. Answer: ilitary cooperation
Question: In Ernest Burgess' concentric zone model, the outermost ring would best be described as. Answer: the exurbs
Question: Since the first census was conducted in 1790, the population center of the United States has. Answer: moved west each decade
Question: The two photos above most clearly display the difference between. Answer: monoculture and biodiversity
Question: Which of the following is NOT a pillar of Islam?. Answer: Six Daily Prayers
Question: The bluegrass music tradition, in which the fiddle and the banjo are the primary interests, is most prevalent in. Answer: Appalachia
Question: Underdeveloped countries with primarily agricultural and resource-based economies that have no formal national government are best described as. Answer: Fifth World countries
Question: All of the following statements regarding women are true EXCEPT. Answer: female heads of household are less likely to rely on public transportation than male heads of household
Question: The primary purpose of the European Court of Justice is to. Answer: provide a legal venue for cases between litigants in separate European Union member states
Question: The graph provided best illustrates. Answer: Malthusian theory
Question: The point at which the lines of food production and human population cross would best be described as the point at which. Answer: the population exceeds its ability to feed itself
Question: Which of the following crops did NOT diffuse to the Old World from the New World as part of the Columbian exchange?. Answer: Chickens
Question: The most likely purpose for drawing an electoral region in the manner shown above is. Answer: to make the outcome of elections more predictable
Question: The name for the practice of redrawing districts in an unnatural, elongated manner is. Answer: gerrymandering
Question: In the House of Representatives, new voting districts are drawn based on the reapportionment of the 435 House seats, which in turn is based on. Answer: the national census
Question: The biggest cause of the decline of feudalism in Europe was. Answer: a series of revolutions that resulted in constitutional monarchy
Question: All of the following are sacred texts in the Hindu-Buddhist tradition EXCEPT. Answer: The Hadīth
Question: The growth of different levels of offices in Christianity (such as cardinals, archbishops, bishops, priests), as well as its birth in urban areas such as Rome, demonstrate that it experienced. Answer: hierarchical diffusion
Question: The difference between ethnicity and race is the difference between. Answer: national heritage and physical characteristics
Question: The yam is considered a staple crop of which of the following culture hearths?. Answer: West Africa
Question: Research has shown that, in the years following contact with Europeans, native Americans died primarily of which of the following?. Answer: Disease
Question: The movement of West African voodoo religion occurred via relocation diffusion, which itself was a result of. Answer: european-directed slavery 
Question: The reason that people of Latin America are often absent from the discussion of racial group physiology is that. Answer: they contain a blend of Mongoloid, Negroid, and Caucasoid races but are not considered a separate race
Question: A Chinese man working in Africa meets another Chinese man and begins the conversation by asking which city he comes from. This is an example of an expression of. Answer: internal identity
Question: The graphic above is an illustration of the difference between. Answer: a centralized pattern and a decentralized pattern
Question: One expression of the difference between these two structures can be seen in the difference between. Answer: a planned economy and a market economy
Question: In the second half of the twentieth century, which of the following enabled the physical structure of American cities to change from the image on the left to the image on right?. Answer: Oil
Question: All of the following are population models EXCEPT. Answer: concentric zone model
Question: A stage 4 nation has a population of 32 million people and a TFR (total fertility rate) of 1.4—yet its population has grown by nearly one million in the last two years.. Answer: Positive net migration
Question: According to the demographic transition model, the primary similarity between stage 1 and stage 2 societies is. Answer: a mostly consistent birth rate
Question: Given centuries of traditional fishing in the region, the sharp rise in the Grand Banks cod harvest from 1956 to 1968 is most likely due to. Answer: improved fishing technology
Question: Keeping in mind the prior rise in the cod harvest, the most likely reason for the rapid decline of the cod harvest from 1968 to 1975 is that. Answer: the cod population had sustained severe damage due to the overfishing of recent years
Question: Because of open access to the Grand Banks region until the 1970s, many foreign trawlers took advantage of the open waters. However, subsequent data has shown that the cod harvest continued to decline after 1975, even despite restricted access. This is an example of. Answer: the tragedy of the commons
Question: Which of the following arguments provides the LEAST support for the argument that the cod population will rebound?. Answer: A government report in 1994 discussed the cod population in terms of both commercial and biological extinction.
Question: This diagram best models. Answer: the spatial margin of profitability
Question: Which of the following is NOT an example of a matching pair of a domesticated animal with its geographical hearth?. Answer: Chicken – northern Africa
Question: William Denevan is most closely associated with which of the following theories?. Answer: Native American depopulation
Question: One of the weaknesses of the demographic transition model is that it. Answer: fails to consider government incentives that affect birth rates
Question: A neo-Malthusian believes that. Answer: the earth may not be able to sustain the food demands of 10 billion people
Question: A society with a triangular population pyramid enjoys which of the following advantages?. Answer: A potentially larger future tax base
Question: Which of the following are examples of modern ethnostates?. Answer: Japan and Israel
Question: According to the demographic transition model, as opposed to the internal migration experienced by stage 2 societies, internal migration experienced by stage 3 societies tends to be. Answer: from urban areas to suburban ones
Question: The primary financial advantage to locating a company in a developing country is. Answer: low taxes
Question: By 2050, one in three people are predicted to be over the age of sixty five. The economic consequences of this "graying" of the world population includes. Answer: fewer employment opportunities for younger people
Question: The owner of a well-regarded urban Chinese restaurant is interested in expanding to a second location in the suburbs. She hires a consultant who studies the proposed location, then informs her that the location does not reach the minimum number of people necessary to support her business. According to Central Place Theory, this number is known as the. Answer: threshold
Question: The map denoted above is an example of a. Answer: topographic map
Question: The curving contour lines that are densely clumped on the map denote. Answer: altitude
Question: Which of the following groups are LEAST likely to regularly use maps of this type?. Answer: Epidemiologists
Question: The earliest techniques used for making such maps include. Answer: tape traverses and sketching
Question: An exclave differs from an enclave in that an exclave is. Answer: a sovereign territory that exists geographically separate from the main territory 
Question: The existence of a periodic market, such as a weekly farmers' market serving the people of a rural county, depends primarily upon. Answer: a threshold too low to support a full-time market
Question: The Mississippi River Delta, with its peculiar blend of European and African traditions, boasts its own accent, food, and music that have spread across the United States. This is known as a. Answer: contemporary culture region
Question: In Argentina, the spread of soccer occurred via British railroad employees as they constructed railways across the country. This is an example of. Answer: contagious diffusion
Question: Which of the following is NOT an example of a folk food taboo?. Answer: The Icelandic tradition of eating rotten fermented shark
Question: Based solely on the map above, which of the following conclusions can be best drawn about the population of Europe?. Answer: The Mediterranean region of Europe has a lower birth rate than other regions of Europe
Question: Which of the following is NOT a criticism of using the GDP (Gross Domestic Product) as a measure of national health?. Answer: It doesn't analyze the manufacturing sector as well as other indices.
Question: All of the following are becoming more necessary for businesses to compete in the contemporary global marketplace EXCEPT. Answer: domestic manufacturing plants
Question: Economically, Mexico and Canada are similar in that the wealth of both countries is. Answer: concentrated along the border with the United States
Question: Somali immigrants to the United States have formed a community of over 80,000 in the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area. This practice of migrants following fellow migrants of the same ethnicity to the same area is referred to as. Answer: chain migration
Question: One of the principal causes of the China-Tibet conflict, which began in 1950, was. Answer: the unwillingness of the Chinese Communist Party to accept the traditions of Tibetan Buddhism
Question: Internal migration is LEAST likely to occur for which of the following reasons?. Answer: Political revolution 
Question: Based on the map, which of the following can be concluded about the African continent?. Answer: A significant natural feature prevents the growth of trees in the northern portion of the continent
Question: All of the following are causes of deforestation in central Africa EXCEPT. Answer: soil erosion
Question: The term reverse migration, when applied to African-Americans, refers to. Answer: their return from the North to newly urbanized areas of the Deep South
Question: Universalizing religions are divided, from largest to smallest, into. Answer: branch, denomination, sect
Question: A young woman living in Namibia cannot find news about her homeland because the television stations and newspapers don't have enough money in their budgets to do investigations. Instead, she watches episodes of The Real Housewives of Atlanta for free on YouTube. Critics might call this an instance of. Answer: cultural imperialism
Question: Amish families in Pennsylvania have a tradition of giving a large plot of farmland to each of their sons, but many of these families have recently begun to have difficulty finding new land to buy. This is an example of the. Answer: challenge of sustainability in folk culture
Question: All of the following are examples of multilingual societies EXCEPT. Answer: France
Question: A Chinese trader and a Brazilian coffee farmer sit down for a business meeting. During the negotiation, they attempt to communicate in basic English, mostly simple nouns and verbs. This is known as. Answer: a pidgin language
Question: Which of the following best describes a "push factor" that would cause rural people in the Third World to leave their farms and migrate away from their home community?. Answer: Civil war or armed conflict in the rural countryside
Question: The concept of physical geographic factors such as soils, climate, and resources shaping a specific culture group's behavior and practices is known as. Answer: environmental determinism
Question: An example of a nation without a representative state would be. Answer: Kurdistan
Question: As industrialized countries continue to develop economically, agriculture in these First-World states tends to have the following characteristics:. Answer: larger farm size and increasing corporate ownership of farms
Question: The shaded area on the map would be best described as the. Answer: European industrial core region
Question: The long-term demographic effect of the One-Child Policy in China has been. Answer: reduction of the total fertility rate below the replacement rate
Question: The effects of increasing worldwide use of the Internet, popularity of Hollywood movies, and consumption of other English-language media would be examples of. Answer: cultural globalization
Question: Workers freely moving between member states within the European Union and the elimination of customs inspections for cars, trucks, and trains moving between EU member states are results of. Answer: open-border policies 
Question: Which plant was the dominant staple crop for the culture hearths of Mesopotamia, ancient Egypt, and the rest of the Fertile Crescent?. Answer: Wheat
Question: New factories located in less developed countries (LDCs) are often the result of corporations based in more devel-oped countries (MDCs) that are seeking. Answer: least-cost industrial locations
Question: All of the following are problems associated with suburban sprawl EXCEPT. Answer: limited communications access and few utility services 
Question: The diagram above displays the concept known as. Answer: Demographic Transition Theory
Question: As shown in Stage 4 of the model, birth rates can dip below death rates. A country that would be an example of this phenomenon would be. Answer: Sweden
Question: In countries that would fall into Stage 2 of the model, the economy would be best characterized as. Answer: agricultural
Question: In the diagram, the point where population growth would be at its highest rate would be. Answer: the line between Stage 2 and Stage 3
Question: A topographical historian might explain the northern European tradition of slowly roasting meat and slowly cooking stews as. Answer: the product of a region that has an abundance of firewood
Question: The large-scale mortality in the population of Native Americans during the decades following European settlement from 1492 onward was vastly the result of. Answer: infectious diseases introduced by European explorers and colonists
Question: One option for small family-owned farms to increase the market value of their crops would be to. Answer: switch to organic farming practices with no pesticides or chemical fertilizers
Question: The forced expulsion and resettlement of culture groups through the use of fear and violence, such as the conflicts within the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s, is known as. Answer: ethnic cleansing
Question: The deindustrialization process within First-World countries where the national economy shifts away from manufacturing and toward services commonly leads to. Answer: large numbers of factory workers being laid off and unemployed
Question: Efforts were made in the 2000s by many First-World city governments to increase the livability and "cool" factor of old central business districts (old CBDs) and surrounding industrial areas. This is intended to attract younger, educated residents and. Answer: creative or high-value service industries such as advertising and architectural firms 
Question: The type of manufacturing which involves the coordinated assembly of products as supplies and parts are received, and thus reduces production costs and decreases inventory space is known as. Answer: just-in-time production
Question: Which of the following population statistics would be commonly found in newly industrialized countries (NICs)?. Answer: High population growth and rapid rural-to-urban migration
Question: Singapore can be classified as all of the following EXCEPT. Answer: a dependent territory
Question: Which of the following cities is NOT part of a larger megalopolis?. Answer: Paris
Question: Because of its popularity as the center of the Islamic faith, the city of Mecca dominates its geographical area in such a way that it has become known as an. Answer: nodal region 
Question: One immediate and practical benefit that a nation receives from protecting its indigenous cultures is. Answer: the ability to market this indigenous culture to the international tourism market
Question: Poor rural-to-urban migrants who settle in Latin American cities are most likely to have residences or homes. Answer: in squatter settlements on the urban periphery 
Question: The Total Fertility Rate (TFR) can be defined as. Answer: the estimated number of children born to each female of birthing age (ages 15–45)
Question: Popular resistance to the creation of a European Union citizen status and EU passports for the residents of EU member states can be attributed to. Answer: the attachment to personal identity based upon nationality and regional uniqueness
Question: In von Thünen's model of the Isolated State the location of village, town, or city would fall into the ring labeled. Answer: A
Question: In von Thünen's model the most time-intensive and labor-intensive agricultural activities would fall in. Answer: rings A and B
Question: In von Thünen's model the area that would be mainly used for grazing activities would be the ring labeled. Answer: E
Question: The concept of scale, in terms of the geographical analysis of population, would be divided upon levels such as. Answer: census tract, city, county 
Question: The amount of energy resources known to be contained in a supply or deposit, such as the barrel volume of an oil field that has been explored by geologists, is known as a. Answer: proven reserve
Question: Pollution in the form of acid rain that can damage natural forests and lake environments is primarily the result of. Answer: the burning of coal for electrical and industrial production
Question: The industrial location of large steel manufacturing centers such as Pittsburgh would be most significantly determined by. Answer: nearby location of water, coal, and limestone resources
Question: A financial factor that led to increased rates of home ownership and massive growth of suburbs in the United States after 1950 was. Answer: the GI bill and similar government-guaranteed mortgage programs
Question: The identity of mestizos in Latin America is a mixture of culture and heritage from. Answer: Native Americans and Europeans
Question: Two examples of absolute monarchies that exist today are. Answer: Saudi Arabia and Brunei
Question: Improvements in health care systems, sanitation infrastructure, and personal nutrition are factors that lead to. Answer: decreased infant mortality rates and increased life expectancy
Question: In social geography the concept of race is best defined as. Answer: differences based upon human physiological variations such as skin color and bone structure
Question: Friedrich Ratzel is noted as the geographer who. Answer: established contemporary human geography at the University of Berlin during the 1800s
Question: The place represented in Source A is. Answer: the destination of the Hajj, a once-in-a-lifetime pilgrimage of all able Muslims
Question: The place represented in Source B is considered to be. Answer: medieval European Christian religious architecture
Question: The places depicted in Sources A and B are similar in that both serve as. Answer: destinations of journeys undertaken by believers of their respective monotheistic religions
Question: The notion that Christopher Columbus was the first European to "discover" America can best be characterized as. Answer: a historical inaccuracy that has nonetheless become folklore strongly tied to the national history of the United States
Question: Places such as Silicon Valley in Californiaand Hyderabad, India, are areas of economicdevelopment in. Answer: high-technology equipment and software
Question: Two examples of current "hard-line" Marxist-socialist states are. Answer: North Korea and Cuba
Question: Which of the following lists includes New World agricultural products that came to Europe in the Columbian exchange after 1492?. Answer: Maize (corn), potatoes, turkeys
Question: The agricultural system represented in the image would be most often found in. Answer: First- and Second-World states
Question: The type of crop farmed using the equipment employed in the image would be. Answer: grains
Question: Upon which source of energy is the type of agriculture production depicted in the image most dependent?. Answer: Petroleum
Question: The following are all factors in the Green Revolution EXCEPT. Answer: low-cost human labor
Question: The existence of Hindu Indian communities in places such as Guyana, Fiji, and South Africa is the result of. Answer: colonial-era labor migrations
Question: A decrease in trade or interaction between different places as the distance between places increases is defined as. Answer: distance decay
Question: The caste system in Hindu India is a social structure based upon. Answer: a social hierarchy in which a person is born into a caste and cannot change castes during their lifetime
Question: Major population centers in Canada are located mainly on waterways, ports, and. Answer: natural resource locations, especially for minerals and oil
Question: The Prime Meridian is. Answer: 0° longitude
Question: The urban model depicted in the diagram best resembles. Answer: Hoyt's Sector model
Question: In the twentieth-century North American city, if area Y is the CBD, then area X is most likely. Answer: an industrial corridor with a river, port, or rail yard
Question: In the twentieth-century North American city, if area Y is the CBD, then area Z is most likely. Answer: a neighborhood dominated by middle-class white Anglo-Saxon Protestants (WASPs)
Question: The effect of Internet connectivity on global communication and business is that it. Answer: decreases the relative distance between places
Question: The theory of environmental determinism generalizes a region's culture as being shaped by. Answer: the combined influences of the physical geography of the region
Question: The staple crop of the Andean culture hearth of the Inca peoples was. Answer: potatoes
Question: The model presented in the map is. Answer: Mackinder's Heartland-Rimland model
Question: The Pivot Area as depicted on the map is important because it contains. Answer: valuable land resource regions such as the Eurasian Steppe and Siberia
Question: Cohen's Shatterbelt theory predicted that armed conflicts after 1950 would likely occur in areas. Answer: within the Inner Crescent
Question: Which of the following is the most plausible explanation for the trends seen in the Mediterranean region of the map?. Answer: Severe national debt and consistently high unemployment
Question: All of the following are branches or denominations of Islam EXCEPT. Answer: Hinduism
Question: Fisheries, mining, and timber are types of economic production that are part of the. Answer: primary sector
Question: The political-economic system found in Communist states is known as. Answer: Marxist-Socialism
Question: By calculating the size and agricultural productivity of former Native American farming areas, geographer William Denevan has estimated the size of the population of the Americas in 1492 as being in the range of. Answer: 50 million to 60 million
Question: New suburban CBDs that have developed into large centers of commercial office space and are often located at major transportation nodes or retail centers are known as. Answer: edge cities
Question: All of the following are factors that contribute to the greenhouse effect EXCEPT. Answer: volcanic eruptions
Question: Which of the following would indicate sustainable resource utilization?. Answer: Paving roads and highways with recycled automobile tire and glass waste
Question: The geographic concept of "nation" can be best described as. Answer: a population represented by a singular culture
Question: Which of the following countries were former Communist states and are now members of the European Union?. Answer: Lithuania and Poland
Question: The traditional method of farming in woodland areas that has been practiced for centuries but now poses an environmental problem in tropical rainforest regions is. Answer: slash and burn agriculture
Question: During the later part of the twentieth century, the three areas designated by arrows are places in Europe that. Answer: experienced armed conflict based upon ethnic and religious differences
Question: In addition to employment and increased pay opportunities, poor rural-to-urban migrants in LDCs can be influenced by pull factors such as. Answer: entertainment and increased access to services in cities
Question: The border characteristics of political regions are. Answer: finite delineations
Question: This urban model best resembles a. Answer: concentric zone model
Question: In this urban model, land prices would be highest in the area labeled. Answer: A
Question: The concentric zone model could be made to more realistically represent commercial land values by inserting. Answer: roads and railways
Question: The use of the English language by all commercial airline pilots worldwide for the purpose of air-traffic control safety would be an example of. Answer: a lingua franca
Question: Which of the following would be an example of a government policy protecting against culturalglobalization?. Answer: French and Canadian government funding for production of French-language movies
Question: Which of the following lists are ALL primate cities?. Answer: Mexico City, Buenos Aires, Lima
Question: Which of the following examples would bestrepresent the concept of map scale?. Answer: 1:24,000, 1:1,000,000, 1:6,000,000
Question: The concept of "space" in human geography can be defined as. Answer: areas of the earth's surface bounded by objects, real and imagined
Question: In the United States following World War II, the ring that would expand most significantly in size would be the area labeled. Answer: D
Question: Jerusalem is considered a holy place by all of the following religions EXCEPT. Answer: animism
Question: A small family-run farm in an LDC that produces a variety of crops including corn, vegetables, eggs, and milk would most likely be an example of. Answer: subsistence farming
Question: The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) is considered a free-trade zone between Canada, the United States, and Mexico because of. Answer: the elimination of tariffs on goods and services traded across borders
Question: The Russian Baltic Sea port of Kaliningrad (Koenigsberg) is separated on land from Russia by Lithuania and Belarus. In this regard it is a political example of an. Answer: exclave
Question: Which of the regions in the map would contain the older "Asian Tigers" that experienced large-scale industrial redevelopment in the 1950s and 1960s?. Answer: B
Question: Which of the regions in the map would contain areas known as special economic zones (SEZs)?. Answer: D
Question: The areas that have large Catholic religious populations are. Answer: C and E
Question: The primary concern of Thomas Malthus's theory of population was that. Answer: human populations would grow at rates that would exceed their ability to produce food and resources 
Question: In a country where the rate of natural increase (RNI) is a negative number, an expected secondary effect of this population situation would be. Answer: an increase in foreign guest workers immigrating to fill jobs
Question: The replacement rate is a Total Fertility Rate (TFR) of. Answer: 2.1
Question: The study of the movement of disease across space is known as. Answer: epidemiology
Question: The shaded region of ancient civilizations which spanned from the Nile River valley through and to the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers is known as the. Answer: Fertile Crescent
Question: The circled areas on the map are all areas which. Answer: are production zones of proven oil reserves
Question: In the post–World War II United States, the locational shift of commercial offices and services from downtown CBDs to suburban areas can be attributed to. Answer: the shift in commercial service workers and consumer residences from inner cities to the suburbs
Question: The area off the coast of a country that extends 200 nautical miles across the water, where that country controls all natural resource extraction including fisheries, energy, and minerals, is established under the United Nations Conference of the Law of the Seas (UNCLOS) as. Answer: the exclusive economic zone
Question: The elite residential sector of the city is found in the area labeled. Answer: B
Question: The CBD labeled on the map historically is centered around a colonial-era. Answer: plaza
Question: Squatter settlements near the center of the city, situated in areas such as river banks, steep hillsides, or abandoned industrial lands, are known as. Answer: zones of disamenity
Question: The zone of in situ accretion is the area labeled. Answer: D
Question: The economically important sea lane designated by the arrow on the map is the. Answer: Strait of Malacca
Question: Prior to the rise of steam power and the electrification of industry, manufacturing centers of the early Industrial Revolution were mainly located. Answer: on waterfalls of streams and rivers
Question: Which of the following is a list of newly industrialized countries (NICs)?. Answer: Brazil, Mexico, India
Question: NATO and the Warsaw Pact can be best described as. Answer: supranational organizations based on military cooperation
Question: The point in the urban landscape with the highest real estate prices is known as the. Answer: peak land value intersection
Question: Population density in the United States since the 1940s has. Answer: shifted toward the southern and western states
Question: The diagrams with the highest dependency ratios are. Answer: B and C
Question: The diagram that most resembles the population structure of the United States is. Answer: E
Question: The diagram that most resembles the population structure of Germany is. Answer: D
Question: The Creole culture found in and around the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico is a mix of the following influences:. Answer: Native American, African, and European
Question: Low-profitability manufacturing, in goods such as clothing or shoes, tends to be located in LDCs that have all of the following EXCEPT. Answer: high-level government environmental rules
Question: Carl Sauer would most strongly agree with which of the following statements?. Answer: Environmental determinism is both factually incorrect and a prejudicial tool of Western colonialism.
Question: Which of the following statements accurately describes the differences between a cylindrical and a conic map?. Answer: A cylindrical map shows true direction but loses distance, while a conic map tries to keep distance but loses directional qualities.
Question: The largest city in "Country X" has 18 million people. According to the rank-size rule, how many people will the third largest city in "Country X" have?. Answer: 6 million
Question: Which of the following is the best example of how someone would determine a vernacular region?. Answer: Asking people around the world to list the exact nations that make up the Western world
Question: Which type of map is best suited for illustrating the weather?. Answer: Isoline maps
Question: Which of the following is the best example of sequent occupance?. Answer: The modern-day usage of the Spanish language throughout the former territories of the Spanish Empire
Question: Which of the following is the best example of a large-scale map?. Answer: A map of Chicago
Question: Expansion diffusion can be broken down into what three types of diffusion?. Answer: Contagious, hierarchical, and stimulus
Question: A hungry person does not wish to drive 10 miles to their favorite restaurant. Instead, he settles for a lackluster sandwich from the deli down the street. What does this behavior best demonstrate?. Answer: Friction of distance
Question: Which of the following is a modern-day factor that does NOT contribute to major population shifts?. Answer: Disease diffusion
Question: To increase agricultural productivity and increase the pest-resistance of many crops, in recent decades agro-industry firms have developed. Answer: genetically engineered foods
Question: A geographer who supports the human capital model of migration would most strongly agree with which of the following statements?. Answer: People primarily seek to improve their incomes over the course of their lives.
Question: A company wants to transfer an employee to another branch across the country. If this person does not accept the transfer, she will suffer no penalty. As a migrant, this person can best be said to have. Answer: neither a push nor pull factor
Question: Which of the following is the primary assumption of Malthusian theory?. Answer: Population growth will outpace agricultural growth.
Question: What is the major disadvantage of arithmetic density?. Answer: It does not account for how land is being used by people.
Question: According to the demographic transition model, as a country moves from an agricultural to an industrial base, what form of migration of people decreases in occurance?. Answer: Cyclic migration
Question: A firmly established immigrant family sends money back to their motherland so that other family members can join them in the United States. Which of the following is the best term for this process?. Answer: Chain migration
Question: The term ecumene refers to. Answer: land that has adequate water sources, relatively flat terrain, and available human food sources
Question: In what stage of the demographic transition model do most geographers agree many Latin American countries are in?. Answer: Stage 3
Question: Which of the following countries is NOT in one of the five main areas of population density (concentrations) in the world?. Answer: Mexico
Question: Which of the following is the best example of a denomination?. Answer: Mormonism
Question: A religious exclave can best be described as. Answer: a group of people who are physically separated from their religious hearth
Question: The consumption of haggis in Scotland is an example of. Answer: folk culture
Question: All of the following are examples of ethnic religion EXCEPT. Answer: Sikhism
Question: Hyde Park in London is best described as an example of. Answer: the cultural landscape
Question: What are the major branches of Judaism?. Answer: Haredi, Orthodox, Reform
Question: The popularization of the two-piece business suit is an example of. Answer: hierarchical diffusion
Question: Language, religion, folklore, philosophies, and superstitions would be best categorized as. Answer: nonmaterial culture
Question: What is the name of the international soccer competition organized by FIFA every four years?. Answer: The World Cup
Question: No country has an absolute right to exploit Antarctica's natural resources because Antarctica is considered. Answer: a global commons
Question: Traditionally, nation-states, such as Japan, Iceland and Denmark, can best be characterized as having. Answer: strong centripetal forces
Question: Which of the following is NOT one of the five toos?. Answer: too salty
Question: Which one of the following lists are ALL renewable energy resources?. Answer: Solar, geothermal, wind power
Question: Which of following is NOT true regarding the European Union (EU)?. Answer: Increased border control has slowed migration between EU member states.
Question: In the 1980s and 1990s, violent confrontations in places such as Serbia, Croatia, and Slovenia illustrated the geopolitical problems within which former country?. Answer: Yugoslavia
Question: Which of the following terms describes the process of a national government transferring governing authority to different regions within the country?. Answer: Devolution
Question: All of the following are current U.S. territories EXCEPT. Answer: Cuba
Question: A boundary or border line placed by an external power over an existing cultural pattern of settlement is called a(n). Answer: superimposed boundary
Question: Which of the following is the best example of someone beginning the process of acculturation?. Answer: A Pakistani engineer in Berlin enrolling in a German language course
Question: The Third Agricultural Revolution is characterized by. Answer: hybridization of crops and animals, as well as the increased use of chemical fertilizers
Question: The wine industry is most closely associated with. Answer: Mediterranean agriculture
Question: Where were squash, beans, and cotton first domesticated?. Answer: Southern Mexico
Question: In which of the following ways has colonialism most strongly impacted agriculture in less developed nations?. Answer: It has led to the persistence of low-paying agricultural jobs on farms geared toward producing and exporting cash crops.
Question: When Norman Borlaug developed new wheat strains, he most directly. Answer: transformed Mexico from an importer to an exporter of wheat
Question: The now-discredited philosophy of "rain follows the plow" is most closely associated with the settlement of which region?. Answer: The Great Plains
Question: Evidence of the township and range system can most easily be seen in the landscape of which region of the United States?. Answer: The Midwest
Question: Which of the following is NOT true of hamlets?. Answer: Hamlets are larger than villages.
Question: Which of the following is considered to be an alpha world city?. Answer: Hong Kong
Question: Which of the following statements accurately portrays urban areas?. Answer: Urban areas draw more young adults than suburban areas do.
Question: Which of the following is NOT associated with subsistence farming?. Answer: Plantation agriculture
Question: Which of the following would most likely minimize pollution and congestion in urban areas?. Answer: Transitioning to a walkable city
Question: Which of the following occupations would likely be found in a post-industrial city?. Answer: Customer service representative
Question: Which of the following is NOT true pertaining to emerging cities?. Answer: All emerging cities are in undeveloped countries.
Question: In the Southeast Asian city model, growth. Answer: extends outward from the port
Question: In the Southeast Asian city model, growth. Answer: originates from the market-gardening zone
Question: Which of the following economic systems allows the market to decide prices?. Answer: Capitalism
Question: What do the cities of London and Shanghai have in common in terms of their development zones?. Answer: They have invested substantially in newly developed industrial zones.
Question: Geothermal power is best defined as. Answer: power derived from the heat from the interior of the Earth
Question: Which of the following countries has the largest reserves of natural gas in the world?. Answer: Russia
Question: Large quantities of anthracite coal are found in. Answer: the Northeast 
Question: A geographer committed to the preservationist land use model would agree with which of the following statements?. Answer: The landscape is worth more in its natural state than in any type of developed state.
Question: Which of the following statements would NOT describe a city in an upward transition?. Answer: The tax base of the city is reduced.
Question: Which of the following statements describes a footloose industry?. Answer: An industry that is prone to relocate
Question: What is the most significant difference between GPS and GIS?. Answer: GPS provides one type of data, whereas GIS combines multiple types of data.
Question: Which of the following terms does NOT refer to a class of map used by cartographers?. Answer: Regional
Question: The theory that holds that human societies can shape their environments to suit their needs rather than being constrained by their environments is called. Answer: possibilism
Question: Based on the information in the table, which of the following measurements is higher in Bangladesh than in the United States?. Answer: Arithmetic density
Question: Which of the following would NOT be described as a culture hearth?. Answer: The Swiss Alps
Question: The prime meridian establishes. Answer: the location of longitude zero degrees
Question: In what pattern would rural settlements around a large water source be arranged for best access to the water source?. Answer: Centralized
Question: The table above best exemplifies which of the following concepts?. Answer: Relocation diffusion
Question: In analyzing population movements in a country, which of the following would be most helpful?. Answer: Historical data about population movements in that country
Question: Which of the following statements is most clearly an instance of the ecological fallacy?. Answer: Extrapolations between scales are permissible as long as the data is accurate.
Question: Which of the following best explains the primary difference between "site" and "situation"?. Answer: Site refers to a location’s physical characteristics, while situation refers to the relationship between that location and the surrounding area.
Question: The image of the Mercator map projection below best illustrates which problem in mapping?. Answer: Distortion
Question: Which of the following maps would likely have the largest scale?. Answer: A map of a city
Question: The European Union (EU) is comprised of 28 member states, many of which share a common currency, and allows freedom of movement between countries within its boundaries. The EU can best be characterized as an example of which of the following?. Answer: Formal region
Question: To an average American, who has never traveled outside of the United States, what does "Western Europe" best represent?. Answer: A perceptual region
Question: Which of the following latitudes would go through the state of Alaska?. Answer: 60 degrees north
Question: Which of the following is NOT an example of a country with a compact shape?. Answer: Indonesia
Question: Which of the following best describes the seasonal migration of livestock to pasture lands where food is more plentiful?. Answer: Transhumance
Question: Which of the following factors best characterizes stage 2 of the demographic transition model?. Answer: High growth
Question: A person is trying to move from Miami to San Diego but decides to stop and stay in Dallas because he finds a better job. This is an example of which of the following?. Answer: Intervening opportunity
Question: The J-curve, depicted in the image below, is used to illustrate which of the following geographic principles?. Answer: The exponential growth of a country’s population
Question: The birth rate in the United Kingdom is 13, while the death rate is 9, and employees are more involved in services than in the production of goods. Which of the following stages of the demographic transition model would best describe the United Kingdom?. Answer: stage 4
Question: The first zone of Johann Heinrich von Thunen's model of agricultural land use involves. Answer: market gardening
Question: Enslaved Africans were brought to the Americas and the Caribbean in exchange for goods as part of the triangular trade in the sixteenth century. Which of the following best describes this type of migration?. Answer: Forced migration
Question: Which of the following is an example of the gravity model?. Answer: New York and Los Angeles are linked due to their populations.
Question: Which of the following is the best example of a multilingual country?. Answer: Canada
Question: Which of the following statements accurately describes zones in the sector model?. Answer: They extend along transportation routes.
Question: Agrarianism in the United States declined in political importance after which historical event?. Answer: World War II
Question: Which of the following best describes the process of acculturation?. Answer: Upon migrating to an area of a different culture, a person’s original customs and traditions eventually become less strong.
Question: Which of the following countries would have the greatest demographic momentum based on its birth rate and death rate?. Answer: Tanzania: 40 birth rate and 9 death rate
Question: With which of the following would a neo-Malthusian geographer most likely disagree?. Answer: Population is growing at a faster rate than agriculture productivity.
Question: Based on the population pyramid above, in which stage of the demographic transition model is Angola?. Answer: Stage 2
Question: Which of the following is a characteristic of a country moving from stage 3 to stage 4 of the demographic transition model?. Answer: Decrease in the percentage of children
Question: Which of the following best explains how the Green Revolution has impacted the carrying capacity of land?. Answer: The Green Revolution produced technology that has increased food productivity, leading to greater carrying capacity.
Question: Which of the following correctly pairs the event with its characterization as a push or pull factor?. Answer: Tornadoes cause a city to evacuate: environmental push factor
Question: In which of the following ways is the western United States different from the eastern United States?. Answer: Those who live in the western United States typically park in residential garages, while those in the eastern United States typically park in alleys.
Question: Which of the following groups would be least likely to be considered  refugees?. Answer: Those who voluntarily moved from the Middle East to Dearborn, Michigan, in the 1920s
Question: Which of the following statements describes the human capital model of migration?. Answer: People seek to improve their incomes over the course of their lives, so they weigh the costs against the benefits of migrating.
Question: Which of the following would be considered a stage 4 country?. Answer: A country that moves away from its reliance on industry to a more service-based economy
Question: When European settlers established relations with American Indians, new languages were created to ease communication and economic exchange between both groups. What is this language type called?. Answer: Trade language
Question: Gross domestic product measures. Answer: the value of the total output of goods and services produced in a country during one year
Question: A country in which nearly all power is held by the central government and very limited, if any, legislative authority is delegated to local political units is best described as a. Answer: unitary state
Question: States within the United States are often considered very different from one another, despite the fact that they are part of the same country. Which of the following best describes this situation?. Answer: Regionalization
Question: Which of the following statements is NOT true regarding language?. Answer: Languages are relatively static.
Question: "Jack tales" are best described as an example of. Answer: folklore
Question: Which of the following is a language from the Afro-Asiatic family?. Answer: Hebrew
Question: Which of the following correctly connects the Christian denomination to one of its core beliefs?. Answer: Mormonism rejects the mainstream Christian doctrine of the Trinity.
Question: The building depicted below is best considered an example of what kind of religious architecture?. Answer: A mosque
Question: The map demonstrates which of the following data representation concepts?. Answer: Concentration
Question: Islam's spread to parts of East Africa and Southeast Asia via trade networks is an example of what two types of cultural diffusion?. Answer: Relocation and contagious diffusion
Question: Which of the following statements accurately describes why Judaism is considered an ethnic religion?. Answer: Jewish people are usually born into their faith rather than converting to it.
Question: Which of the following languages would be considered the lingua franca of East Africa?. Answer: Swahili
Question: Why is Missouri one of the hearths of bluegrass music?. Answer: Missouri was composed of a mix of Irish, Scottish, and African American people.
Question: Which of the following is an example of hierarchical diffusion?. Answer: A British celebrity popularizing her hairstyle in Brazil
Question: At which of the following sporting events do hooligans incite violence?. Answer: Soccer matches
Question: The modern game of soccer (football) spread to many parts of the world because of British colonization. This is best described as an example of which type of diffusion?. Answer: Relocation
Question: A geographer who supports the theory of environmental determinism would most likely agree with which of the following statements?. Answer: A society’s physical and intellectual attributes are shaped by the location and climate in which they develop.
Question: The structure below would most likely be found in which of the following countries?. Answer: Thailand
Question: Which of the following best explains why the process of acculturation typically takes three generations?. Answer: Use of the home language usually fades away within three generations.
Question: Which of the following describes a primary desire of secularists?. Answer: Separate marriage from religious constraints
Question: Which of the following is an example of a monument that is NOT considered a sacred space?. Answer: The Hiroshima Peace Memorial
Question: Namibia, a state in the southwestern part of Africa, has a prorupted shape: while mostly compact, it includes a nearly 300-mile protrusion called the Caprivi Strip that extends eastward to the Zambezi River.. Answer: Access to more raw materials and trade routes
Question: Which of the following best describes a primary purpose for why state and local political boundaries were defined, delimited, and demarcated in the United States?. Answer: To set the limits of political sovereignty
Question: After decades of Soviet rule and control of Eastern Europe, in 1989, the Berlin Wall and the Iron Curtain fell, precipitating the end of the Soviet Union. This is best described as an example of which of the following?. Answer: Devolution
Question: All of the following are considered development indicators EXCEPT. Answer: conservation
Question: A good example of a monolingual country would be. Answer: Japan
Question: A family of immigrants learns the language of their new country, with each generation becoming more fluent. This process is an example of which of the following?. Answer: Acculturation
Question: Due to population changes, political boundaries must be redrawn so that districts are more representative of the new population numbers. Suppose a state legislature that is controlled by a dominant political party manipulates this process to help elect candidates of its party. This process would best be described as. Answer: gerrymandering
Question: In the 1990s, in Rwanda, conflict between the Hutus and the Tutsis caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people. This is best described as an example of. Answer: an ethnic conflict
Question: Which of the following international agreements most likely gives the details concerning the United States' legal rights to extract oil off the U.S. coast?. Answer: The UN’s International Law of the Sea
Question: From the 1950s through the 1970s, Southeast Asia was in the middle of the conflict between two Cold War superpowers. The West, led by the United States, and the East, led by the Soviet Union and China, fought for control of the region. Which of the following would describe Southeast Asia in this situation?. Answer: A shatterbelt region where outside forces exerted influence
Question: Which of the following represents an example of political fragmentation?. Answer: The end of Yugoslavia as an independent state
Question: The countries of Japan, Iceland, and Denmark are examples of countries wherein one major ethnic group makes up most of the population. In these countries, the national borders correspond very closely with the state borders. Such countries are most appropriately referred to as which of the following?. Answer: Nation-states
Question: Which of the following would best describe the type of political entity that an American Indian reservation would be classified as?. Answer: Semiautonomous region
Question: Based on the information in the table, which of the following has the highest population density?. Answer: Monaco
Question: The movement of people from the Rust Belt to the Sun Belt is an example of which of the following types of migration?. Answer: Interregional
Question: In the late 1940s, tensions between India and Pakistan escalated into armed conflict. The tensions were fueled, in part, by religious differences. Such differences are best described by which of the following?. Answer: Centrifugal forces
Question: Which of the following international organizations would have the most geopolitical importance according to Spykman's rimland theory?. Answer: NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization)
Question: Suppose that a newly created country forms a government that is based on centralized authority and rejects the notion of locally based power centers. Which of the following terms best describes the government in this new state?. Answer: Unitary
Question: The four heads of Brahma are thought to represent. Answer: the Vedas
Question: Supranational organizations, such as the European Union (EU), North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and the United Nations (UN), often attempt to limit the political or economic actions of their member countries. As such, these organizations. Answer: challenge state sovereignty
Question: The majority of African states entered the United Nations after 1960 because. Answer: the majority of the states hadn’t become independent until the 1960s
Question: San Marino and Vatican City are countries that are located within Italy. Lesotho is a country that is located within South Africa. Which of the following best describes the political geography of these three states?. Answer: They are enclaves.
Question: The Berlin Wall is a good example of which of the following?. Answer: Demarcation line
Question: Which of the following is the best example of voluntary segregation?. Answer: Ethnic neighborhoods in New York City
Question: The border between the United States and Canada, as shown in the map below, is an example of what type of boundary?. Answer: Geometric boundary
Question: The image below shows which of the following types of survey pattern used in the United States?. Answer: Township and range
Question: Which of the following is a circumstance that often leads to desertification?. Answer: Herds of animals grazing on land that does not receive enough rainfall
Question: Which of the following best explains the primary difference between livestock ranching and livestock fattening?. Answer: Livestock ranching requires more land than livestock fattening.
Question: Which of the following best describes the Second Agricultural Revolution?. Answer: The Second Agricultural Revolution involved the mechanization of farming.
Question: Which of the following trends best describes farming in the United States in the late twentieth century?. Answer: Movement to industrial agriculture
Question: Which of the following statements describes an impact of the double-cropping practice that started during the Green Revolution?. Answer: It allows farmers to alter natural processes to increase crop yields.
Question: Von Thünen's model of agricultural land use revolves around which of the following fundamental principles?. Answer: The farmers in the area are all involved in commercial agriculture, selling their products to a centrally located market.
Question: Which of the following zones of von Thünen's model is the best fit for the fruit production method of farming?. Answer: Market gardening
Question: Which of the following statements best demonstrates the effect that natural features like mountain ranges and oceans have on human geography?. Answer: Natural features shape the diffusion of cultural ideas and populations.
Question: Which of the following scenarios best exemplifies the concept of distance decay?. Answer: A person who lives far away from a shopping mall and therefore visits it infrequently
Question: The majority of the world's farming population is involved in which type of agriculture?. Answer: Subsistence farming
Question: Three of the largest U.S. dairy regions are in the Northeast (New York and Pennsylvania), the Upper Midwest (Wisconsin and Minnesota), and California. Which of the following best explains this phenomenon?. Answer: Large urban centers are located near each region.
Question: Which of the following correctly pairs the agricultural hearth with its type?. Answer: Southern Mexico and seed agriculture
Question: Which of the following agricultural practices would most likely be used in tropical forested areas of southeast Asia and central Africa?. Answer: Shifting cultivation
Question: Which of the following was most likely the first form of agriculture in human history?. Answer: Hunting and gathering
Question: The Tuareg people of the Sahara and their animals seasonally migrate to the higher lands in the summer and the valleys in the winter. This is best considered an example of. Answer: transhumance
Question: The map below shows corn production for selected U.S. states. Which of the following conclusions can be made based on the map?. Answer: Corn is linked with the livestock-fattening region of the United States.
Question: Which of the following best explains recent trends in agriculture in the United States?. Answer: The total revenue of agricultural sales is becoming more concentrated in a small number of large corporate farms.
Question: In the 1930s in the United States, a Dust Bowl was created in the Great Plains area due to a combination of drought, overgrazing by cattle, and farming practices that overtaxed the soil. Which of the following terms describes this type of process?. Answer: Desertification
Question: Which of the following is NOT a form of commercial farming?. Answer: Slash-and-burn farming
Question: Which of the following best explains the role of women in the First Agricultural Revolution?. Answer: Women cultivated crops based on their observations of seasonal patterns in plant growth.
Question: A group of farmers decide to grow crops in tropical areas for sale in more developed countries. Which of the following best describes this type of farming?. Answer: Plantation agriculture
Question: Which of the following best describes the concentric zone model, pictured above?. Answer: It suggests that the lower classes live closest to the central business district, while the upper classes live farther out.
Question: Which of the following describes a problem with the concentric zone model?. Answer: Most cities today are no longer organized in clear zones.
Question: Queenstown has a population of 2.2 million. The next largest city in the country is Kingsville with a population of 850,000. Based on this information, Queenstown is an example of which type of city?. Answer: Primate city
Question: Which of the following lists the urban hierarchy of settlements in order from smallest to largest?. Answer: Hamlet, village, town, city, metropolis
Question: Which of the following best explains why Ullman and Harris developed the multiple nuclei model?. Answer: To describe the complex development of urban areas
Question: Which of the following statements is NOT true regarding world cities?. Answer: These cities have double the population of the next largest city in their countries.
Question: Which of the following statements best explains the bid-rent theory?. Answer: Land value is highest in the central business district, and land value decreases with distance from the CBD.
Question: Which of the following statements best describes the Latin American city model?. Answer: High-income residential areas extend out from the central business district.
Question: Which of the following is an example of a basic industry?. Answer: A car factory in Detroit
Question: Gateway cities are associated with which of the following population trends?. Answer: Immigration
Question: Which of the following is an example of blockbusting?. Answer: A real estate agent tries to induce people to sell their homes by appealing to a perception that a different race is moving into the neighborhood.
Question: Which of the following statements best describes a major difference between U.S. and European cities?. Answer: Traditional European cities were not designed to accommodate automobiles.
Question: Based on the image below, which of the following statements is NOT true regarding Asian cities?. Answer: Many of the high-income residences are designed to protect residents from the crime bred by widespread urban poverty.
Question: Which of the following would likely result from deindustrialization?. Answer: Zones of abandonment
Question: In which of the following ways has suburbanization impacted cities?. Answer: Cities are becoming dominated by the elderly and younger couples with either no children or very young children.
Question: Favelas are symptoms of which problem in Latin American cities?. Answer: Wealth inequality
Question: Greenbelts are primarily created to prevent which of the following?. Answer: Urban sprawl
Question: Which of the following best describes the multiple nuclei model?. Answer: Growth may begin in commercial, industrial, and even residential suburbs outside the central business district.
Question: Which of the following best explains the basis for Walter Christaller's central place theory?. Answer: People will travel the least distance possible to meet their service needs.
Question: New York City's Central Park is a public outdoor space that offers activities, events, concerts, and other attractions. Central Park is an example of which of the following?. Answer: A festival landscape
Question: Which of the following best describes a significant position in Weber's least cost theory?. Answer: The cost to transport raw materials is more important than the cost of the raw materials themselves.
Question: Which of the following is an example of a weight-gaining industry?. Answer: Automobile manufacturing
Question: Which of the following best describes the economic relationship between less developed countries in Africa and more developed countries in Western Europe?. Answer: Western European countries procure raw materials and inexpensive, unskilled labor from less developed African countries.
Question: Which of the following most directly influenced the economic success of the Four Asian Tigers?. Answer: International trade
Question: The transfer of a shipment of blue jeans from a train to a truck at a distribution point is an example of. Answer: a break-of-bulk point
Question: Which of the following exemplifies why Shanghai is considered one of China's special economic zones (SEZs)?. Answer: Foreign car makers including Ford, General Motors, and Volkswagen have located plants near Shanghai.
Question: Which of the following concepts describes the benefits companies receive due to clustering together in the same location?. Answer: Agglomeration
Question: Which of the following portions of the economy processes raw materials in order to manufacture goods?. Answer: Secondary sector
Question: According to the core-periphery model, as shown in the map below, the Canadian northern territories would be classified as. Answer: a resource frontier
Question: A large corporation looking to lower labor costs would most likely seek which of the following?. Answer: Outsourcing
Question: According to Weber's least cost theory, which of the following types of industry is depicted in the image?. Answer: Weight-gaining
Question: Which of the following industries is most likely to produce goods in a sweatshop?. Answer: Garment manufacturing
Question: Which of the following statements concerning the Human Development Index (HDI) is most accurate?. Answer: The HDI of a country decreases when students study abroad without returning.
Question: Which of the following would most likely be undertaken by a corporation engaging in sustainable development?. Answer: Pursuing alternative energy sources to reduce pollution
Question: Which of the following best matches the rationale for the most used method of industrial transportation?. Answer: Trucks are extremely mobile, efficient, and flexible as they can move large amounts of cargo long distances relatively quickly.
Question: Which of the following best exemplifies the practices of a multinational corporation?. Answer: Company X invested in equipment that allows for mass production of most of their products.
Question: The adoption of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1994 resulted in which of the following?. Answer: A modest increase in the United States’ GDP
Question: Why was the Gender Development Index (GDI) developed by the United Nations?. Answer: The GDI was created to determine the disparities between men’s and women’s relative overall human development.
Question: Which of the following best describes gross domestic product (GDP)?. Answer: The total market value of the goods and services produced in a country within a given year
Question: Which of the following industry-region pairs is NOT an example of a basic industry?. Answer: Healthcare – Los Angeles
Question: According to the graphs, how does Boserup's theory differ from Malthus's theory regarding the relationship between food and population?. Answer: Boserup's theory shows that the rate curves of food production and population growth never cross.
Question: In the early 1800s, Thomas Malthus predicted that population would soon be in which of the following stages of growth?. Answer: Exponential
Question: Weber's least cost theory is based on what primary cost?. Answer: Transportation
Question: Which country has created special economic zones (SEZs) to attract investment?. Answer: China
Question: Almost 99 percent of the people in Denmark are Danes, follow the Lutheran religion, and speak Danish. Denmark is thus an exemplar of which of the following?. Answer: Nation-state
Question: According to the demographic transition model, a country enters stage 3 when. Answer: the birth rate decreases
Question: What stage in the demographic transition model has exponential growth rates?. Answer: Stage 2
Question: In the 1930s, many low-income regions of the city of Baltimore, Maryland, were designated as "hazardous," resulting in a reduction in the availability of mortgage lending and an increase in lending costs when mortgages were available. Which of the following terms best describes this phenomenon?. Answer: Redlining
Question: Which of the following best explains the trend of total coal consumption depicted in the first graph?. Answer: The increasing industrialization of developing nations depends on coal as its primary energy source.
Question: Which of the following statements about energy sources and pollution is best supported by the second graph?. Answer: Nuclear power plants do not directly produce polluting carbon emissions.
Question: Which of the following continents uses nuclear power for a greater percentage of its total power output than any other continent?. Answer: Europe
Question: A retired couple moves from Chicago, Illinois to Lakeland, Florida. According to the map below, this is most likely an example of what geographic factor?. Answer: Environmental pull factor
Question: A family plans to move from Los Angeles, California, to New Orleans, Louisiana, but stops and stays in Albuquerque, New Mexico, because of the positive amenities. This is an example of. Answer: intervening opportunity
Question: During the process of acculturation, how many generations, on average, does it take for an immigrant family to lose its primary language?. Answer: Three generations
Question: Which of the following theories, pictured below, suggests that whoever owns the Eastern European region could control the world based on the agricultural and industrial production of the region?. Answer: Heartland theory
Question: The delivery area of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette is an example of. Answer: a functional region
Question: Based on the information in the table below, which of the following cities is a primate city in its country?. Answer: London, United Kingdom
Question: Which of the following countries would be considered an enclave?. Answer: Lesotho
Question: Prior to the First Agricultural Revolution, how did humans primarily obtain food?. Answer: Hunting and gathering
Question: Farming in the United States is in a transition period best characterized by. Answer: the movement toward industrial farming
Question: The Second Agricultural Revolution coincided with. Answer: the Industrial Revolution
Question: Which of the following events contradicted Malthus's prediction?. Answer: The Second Agricultural Revolution
Question: Which of the following areas of the world is currently experiencing the most rapid population growth?. Answer: Sub-Saharan Africa
Question: A lack of economic development in developing regions of the world is predominantly attributed to a lack of. Answer: foreign investment
Question: According to the map below, the Mississippi River is a prime example of which of the following types of political boundaries?. Answer: Antecedent
Question: In terms of today's global economy, which of the following areas would be considered the resource frontier of the world?. Answer: The Middle East
Question: Which of the following political tactics was allegedly used when the boundaries of North Carolina's Twelfth Congressional District were drawn?. Answer: Gerrymandering
Question: Which of the following describes the spread of religion as a result of Bhutanese refugees migrating to North Carolina?. Answer: Relocation diffusion
Question: What is the primary type of farming used in the rain forests of Brazil?. Answer: Slash-and-burn agriculture
Question: Sub-Saharan agricultural regions, as depicted in dark gray on the map, are primarily adversely affected by which of the following environmental factors?. Answer: Desertification
Question: Which of the following example best fits the city structure depicted in the first image?. Answer: Commuting to work from the suburbs in Atlanta
Question: Which of the following models suggests that in an urban setting, the farther a neighborhood is from the central business district, the greater its wealth is?. Answer: Concentric zone model
Question: Languages that are in danger of extinction are typically used in isolated regions around the world. Which of the following regions has the fewest languages that are under threat of extinction?. Answer: Europe
Question: What is the primary form of agriculture found in desert regions, such as the Gobi Desert regions of Mongolia?. Answer: Pastoral nomadism
Question: Which of the following most accurately describes typical Southeast Asian cities?. Answer: Growth extends outward from the port, and commercial zones are near ports.
Question: Central Park in New York City is a public recreation space that hosts outdoor events. This is a good example of which of the following features?. Answer: A festival landscape
Question: The prevalence of corn production in the United States correlates with which of the following practices that is normally classified as an extensive agricultural activity?. Answer: Cattle production
Question: According to the map, which of the following is the universalizing religion that is most prevalent in the world today?. Answer: Christianity
Question: Based on the map and your knowledge of human geography, which of following represents the world's fastest-growing religion?. Answer: Islam
Question: Which religions are most prominent today in the regions that were the hearths of the world's five major religions?. Answer: Hinduism and Islam
Question: The 38th parallel was created to form the border between North and South Korea after World War II. This line is an example of a(n). Answer: superimposed boundary
Question: Based on the population pyramid, the population of Japan in 2050 is projected to have a large percentage of which of the following groups?. Answer: Elderly people
Question: An increase in which of the following would most likely broaden the base of the population pyramid?. Answer: Birth rate
Question: A television personality starts a fad of wearing shorts with a shirt and tie. The trend gradually spreads throughout the United States. This is an example of which of the following types of diffusion?. Answer: Hierarchical
Question: Which of the following religions is a monotheistic religion?. Answer: Judaism
Question: A city is located on a river that is prone to flooding yet provides trade advantages that bring measurable wealth to the city. Based on this information, which of the following statements would best fit that city?. Answer: The city has a good situation yet a poor site.
Question: According to the Latin American city model, Latin American cities are typically centered around which of the following?. Answer: Market district
Question: Which of the following is presupposed in von Thünen's model of agricultural land use?. Answer: The farmers sell all of their farm production to a market.
Question: Which of the following best explains an aspect of von Thünen's model of agricultural land use?. Answer: Although dairy byproducts do not spoil easily, the dairy industry is close to the market because milk does spoil easily.
Question: Which of the following distinguishes Islamic cities from other city models?. Answer: The role religion plays in city infrastructure
Question: Which of the following types of industries best applies to the production of potato chips?. Answer: Weight-reducing industry
Question: Which is the world's primary lingua franca language?. Answer: English
Question: Which of the following accurately identifies the urban hierarchy of settlements from least populous to most populous?. Answer: Hamlet, village, town, city, metropolis
Question: Los Angeles receives goods from Asia via ships. In the ports, the goods are put on trains for distribution around the United States. Which of the following terms best describes Los Angeles in this scenario?. Answer: Break-of-bulk point
Question: Which of the following cities would be classified by Saskia Sassen as a global city?. Answer: London
Question: Which of the following world regions did not serve a historic role in the spread of agriculture as shown in the map?. Answer: Europe
Question: Which of the following types of agriculture is practiced by the greatest number of people in the world today?. Answer: Subsistence agriculture
Question: Suppose a person who was born in the desert region of Sudan self-identifies as "a proud immigrant from East Africa." Which of the following would most accurately describe the type of region the person has described?. Answer: Perceptual region
Question: Based on the table, which of the following statements is correct regarding the Sahel region?. Answer: The region's high total fertility rate is above replacement levels, leading to population increase.
Question: The sub-Saharan and Saharan regions of Africa are suffering from which of the following environmental problems due to the overgrazing of animals?. Answer: Desertification
Question: Which of the following is a common negative consequence of gentrification?. Answer: Property taxes are increased.
Question: Languages that develop from a common ancestral tongue are classified as a language family. Chinese belongs to the. Answer: Sino-Tibetan family
Question: Which of the following best describes the total fertility rate needed to maintain or grow a population?. Answer: Above 2.0
Question: Based on the map, the Wheat Belt in the United States corresponds with which of the following regions?. Answer: Great Plains
Question: Which of the following would most directly  account for the trend shown in the graph from 1960 to 2010?. Answer: Green Revolution
Question: Which of the following is the city model depicted in the second image?. Answer: Sector model
Question: The hybridization and spread of which of the following crops most significantly increased crop production in Asia in the twentieth century?. Answer: Rice
Question: Compared to wheat producers in less developed countries, wheat producers in the United States are more likely to rely on. Answer: large-scale commercial agriculture
Question: Which of the following is one of the main reasons the United Nations created the Human Development Index?. Answer: To measure life expectancy
Question: Which of the following best represents a potential centrifugal force?. Answer: Religious diversity
Question: The Hmong tradition of bringing family members to the United States after some family members have migrated is an example of. Answer: chain migration
Question: Just-in-time delivery is a process that primarily aims at. Answer: getting products to the market to meet demand
Question: Which of the following best describes the outsourcing of labor from more developed countries to less developed countries in order to take advantage of cheaper labor costs?. Answer: The new international division of labor
Question: Recent immigrants from China have established commercial activities in Chinatown in Washington, D.C. Their cultural imprint has given this neighborhood a distinctive flair, creating. Answer: an ethnic neighborhood
Question: City A has improved its transportation system over the past 10 years, including constructing a light rail line that runs west/east through the core downtown. Construction firms have requested a large number of permits for new high-income residential buildings along the length of the tracks. Which of the following models most directly describes City A's growth?. Answer: Sector model
Question: Based on the map, which of the following best describes the city of Istanbul?. Answer: Gateway city
Question: Suppose a cartographer were to make a map of one of the individual locations shown on the map above. Which of the following locations would be mapped using the largest scale?. Answer: Istanbul
Question: As shown on the map, the state of Bulgaria would most accurately be described as. Answer: a formal region
Question: Historically, steel production in Pittsburgh and automobile manufacturing in Detroit have been examples of which of the following?. Answer: Basic industries
Question: Suppose a country has been experiencing a population explosion for the last five years. Which of the following most likely describes a true statement about this country's situation?. Answer: There is a diminishing ability of the land to sustain the population.
Question: Which of the following most accurately explains why the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was created?. Answer: To counter the spread of communism
Question: The movement of Mexicans from farmland to Mexico City is best described by which migration pattern?. Answer: Interregional
Question: As a country's economy moves from relying on industry to being more service based, which of the following would most likely happen to the country's population?. Answer: Its birth and death rates will likely start moving closer together.
Question: The Hoover Dam best illustrates which of the following theories on human-environmental interaction?. Answer: Possibilism
Question: Which of the following business developments in a certain town would best indicate that the town's economy is moving into the quaternary economic sector?. Answer: Local technology firms partner to open a space and satellite research and development laboratory.
Question: A large agribusiness conglomerate recently contracted with local growers. Some of the growers will produce bananas, and others will produce sugarcane. These crops are traditionally associated with which of the following?. Answer: Plantation farming
Question: In the United States, the South is experiencing rapid population growth due to the relocation of industrial activities from the Northeast and Midwest. Based on the core-periphery model, this is because the South is in. Answer: an upward transition area
Question: Which of the following best describes the relationship between core and periphery countries according to the world systems theory?. Answer: Core countries invest very little foreign capital in periphery countries.
Question: For the last 10 years, a medium-sized city in the Midwest has suffered from an increase in crime, pollution, traffic congestion, and housing costs. Because of these issues, a significant number of people have left the city. This process is best described as. Answer: counterurbanization
Question: In terms of its relationship to the former Soviet Union, Romania could best be described as a. Answer: satellite state
Question: Romanian, Italian, and Portuguese are all part of the same. Answer: language family
Question: London, Paris, Buenos Aires, and Mexico City are all examples of. Answer: primate cities
Question: Which of the following lists of zones is presented in order of increasing distance from the market according to von Thünen's model of land use?. Answer: Dairy, commercial grain, livestock ranching
Question: The Basque, Hmong, and Kurdish peoples are examples of which of the following?. Answer: Stateless nations
Question: It can reasonably be inferred that the structure in the image below would be visited most frequently by adherents of which of the following faiths?. Answer: Islam
Question: Which of the following best explains the inaccurate assumption underpinning Thomas Malthus's theory of overpopulation?. Answer: Agricultural productivity would increase with an increasing population.
Question: Which of the following incorrectly pairs a staple food with its geographic region?. Answer: Millet and South Asia
Question: The model of U.S. cities depicted posits below which of the following geographic principles as essential for the economic success of commercial establishments?. Answer: Threshold and range
Question: Which of the following is equal to the rate of natural increase?. Answer: Births minus deaths
Question: Which of the following best explains why double-cropping is a common agricultural practice in Asia?. Answer: Double-cropping has ensured the food supply for much of Asia's population.
Question: Which of the following was a pillar of the religion depicted by the first image?. Answer: Four Noble Truths
Question: Which of the following beliefs is shared by the two religions represented by the images?. Answer: Reincarnation
Question: Olives, dates, and grapes are agricultural products that result from which type of farming?. Answer: Mediterranean agriculture
Question: Which of the following identifies the novel feature that allowed early automobile industrial workers high enough wages that they could afford the products that they were making?. Answer: The specialization of individual jobs
Question: According to the rank-size rule, if a region's biggest city has a population of 1,200,000, then the second-largest city will likely have a population of. Answer: 600,000
Question: Many planned communities in third-ring suburbs are designed with pedestrians in mind due, in large part, to which of the following?. Answer: New Urbanism
Question: Dividing a country's population by its total land area gives a geographer what statistic?. Answer: Arithmetic density
Question: The concept of the American South means many things to different people, and many people draw the South using different boundaries. This is an example of. Answer: a vernacular region
Question: The region highlighted on the map has been most strongly influenced by which of the following institutions over the last century?. Answer: The Southern Baptist Convention
Question: Which land-use system shown in the image below originated in Britain and is still used today in many parts of New England?. Answer: Metes and bounds
Question: The diagram below best exhibits what model of urbanization?. Answer: Multiple nuclei model
Question: The boundary changes illustrated in the map were likely brought about by which of the following?. Answer: Centrifugal forces
Question: The breakup of the former Yugoslavia was most directly a result of which of the following?. Answer: Ethnic conflict
Question: Bosnia and Herzegovina has an internationally recognized border, but some of its territory is occupied by Serbian forces. This is an example of how a country's military forces can. Answer: challenge state sovereignty
Question: Suppose a city mayor supports making major changes to improve the downtown area's transportation system by adding several new walkways, bike paths, and by improving all existing sidewalks. The mayor's approach is most similar to that called for by supporters of. Answer: New Urbanism
Question: The map indicates areas of interest that spurred the formation of  which multinational organization?. Answer: Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)
Question: Pork production is almost nonexistent in the Islamic world. Which of the following statements best explains this lack of pork production?. Answer: Religious guidelines do not allow Muslims to eat pork.
Question: . Answer: Stage 1
Question: Which crop is the most important grain for intensive subsistence farmers?. Answer: Rice
Question: Based on the population data presented in the chart, Russia entered which stage of the demographic transition model in approximately 1993?. Answer: Stage 4
Question: Which of the following results would be most likely to occur if the birth and death rates depicted in the chart stabilized at their 2003 levels?. Answer: The total population of Russia would experience a decline.
Question: Which of the following forms of agriculture is traditionally practiced in more arid climates?. Answer: Pastoral nomadism
Question: Based on the information in the table and your knowledge of geography, which of the following religions is most likely to be considered an ethnic religion?. Answer: Shinto
Question: Which of the following correctly pairs a religion from the table with its hearth?. Answer: Buddhism and South Asia
Question: The designation of agricultural land-use zones in Uruguay, as depicted in the map, is most consistent with which of the following statements about von Thünen's model of agricultural land use?. Answer: Agricultural products need to be close to market to minimize transportation costs.
Question: Von Thünen's model of agricultural land use is usually represented by a series of concentric circles with the market at the center. Which of the following most likely explains why Uruguay's agricultural zones do not conform perfectly to von Thünen's concentric model?. Answer: Geographical features can make some land unsuitable for certain types of commercial farming, regardless of the land’s distance to markets.
Question: Which of the following theories, adopted by the Germans during World War II, proposed that whoever controls Eastern Europe and Western Asia could control the world?. Answer: Heartland theory
Question: Which of the following most accurately describes how an economy develops, according to Rostow's development model?. Answer: Traditional society, transitional stage, takeoff, drive to maturity, age of mass consumption
Question: The agricultural product that the majority of the world's population depends on for survival is. Answer: rice
Question: Which area of the world was the first to develop cotton, corn, and beans as primary agricultural products?. Answer: Central America
Question: Which of the following regions in the United States leads in coal production?. Answer: Appalachia
Question: The conflict in Rwanda and Uganda in the mid-1990s is an example of. Answer: an ethnic conflict
Question: Some countries, like Denmark, have state boundaries that closely coincide with the geographic boundaries of their dominant ethnic population. Which of the following terms best describes these countries?. Answer: Nation-states
Question: Which of the following illustrates the multiplier effect?. Answer: The steel industry in Pittsburgh has led to the expansion of the area’s construction industries which has led to the expansion of raw material supply companies.
Question: Belgium's shape, as shown in the first map, is an advantage for which of the following reasons?. Answer: It makes it easier to defend the country’s borders.
Question: Italy has two self-contained, autonomous states located within its borders: San Marino and Vatican City. Which of the following terms is most commonly used to describe countries, like Italy, with these types of political boundaries?. Answer: Perforated countries
Question: Which of the following describes a consequence of Italy's shape, as shown in the second map?. Answer: Difficulty in transporting resources
Question: The Partition of India, in 1947, resulted in the creation of two newly independent countries: India, with a Hindu-majority population, and Pakistan, with a Muslim-majority population. The migration of Muslims from India and of Hindus from Pakistan following the Indian partition was most likely the result of which of the following types of factors that influence migration patterns?. Answer: A political push factor
Question: Which statement best describes how European central business districts (CBDs) are different from those of most world cities?. Answer: European cities have narrow streets and low-rise buildings in their CBDs.
Question: What do the languages of English, Spanish, and Hindi have in common?. Answer: All three are in the Indo-European language family.
Question: The map below shows Amtrak's main line in the Northeast corridor. The fact that there is more movement between Washington, D.C., and Baltimore than there is between Washington, D.C., and Philadelphia can best be characterized as a function of. Answer: distance decay
Question: The term "formal region" refers to which of the following?. Answer: A region where everything has the same set of characteristics
Question: Which of the following is a primate city, based on the data shown in the table below?. Answer: Mexico City
Question: The World Trade Center in New York City exemplified which of the following?. Answer: Symbolic landscape
Question: Rapid population growth would likely lead to which of the following effects?. Answer: Environmental degradation
Question: Which of the following is true of the sector model for U.S. cities?. Answer: It describes a social structure based on transportation systems rather than on distance from the central business district.
Question: Most of the urban areas in the United States most accurately reflect which urban model?. Answer: Multiple nuclei model
Question: Which vegetative hearth grew taro, bananas, and palm trees?. Answer: Southeast Asia
Question: Which of the following most directly produces a built environment?. Answer: Material culture
Question: Democratization is more likely to occur in a country when that country has which of the following?. Answer: A relatively high level of wealth, a strong educational system, and strong social mobility
Question: Which of the following boundary types best describes the western United States?. Answer: Geometric boundary
Question: Which of the following best explains a difference between eastern and western U.S. cities?. Answer: Eastern U.S
Question: Historically, the U.S. population has tended to move in which directions?. Answer: West, then south
Question: Which of the following types of farming involves abandoning fields and allowing the land to return to its natural state?. Answer: Shifting cultivation
Question: Which of the following correctly pairs the agricultural technique with its revolution?. Answer: Animal domestication and the First Agricultural Revolution
Question: The land-survey pattern shown below is used in which part of the United States?. Answer: Southeast
Question: According to Wallerstein's world systems analysis, which of the following areas represents less developed countries?. Answer: Periphery areas
Question: Which of the following is an example of a non-basic industry?. Answer: Building homes in West Virginia
Question: Based on the chart below, which of the following metropolitan areas would most likely be considered a megacity?. Answer: São Paulo
Question: Which of the following best describes Weber's least cost theory?. Answer: The weight of the raw materials and the finished product will determine the location of the production facility.
Question: Which of the following correctly pairs the area with its region type?. Answer: Canada and formal region
Question: The United States and Canada are separated by the 49th parallel. Which of the following best describes this type of border?. Answer: Geometric boundary
Question: Which of the following factors most likely contributed to the Dust Bowl in the 1930s, pictured above?. Answer: Over-plowing the soil in the Great Plains
Question: Which of the following factors most likely led to migrations away from the Dust Bowl area of the Great Plains?. Answer: Economic push factors
Question: Which of the following is an example of an intervening opportunity?. Answer: A family migrating from New York to California decides to stop in Chicago because of the high availability of premium jobs.
Question: Which of the following best exemplifies the concept of commodity dependence?. Answer: A core area relies primarily on the export of oil for its economic growth.
Question: Which of the following best describes one of Ravenstein's laws of migration?. Answer: Each migration produces a movement in the opposite direction.
Question: Which of the following best describes a traditional society according to Rostow's model of development?. Answer: Most trade involves farmers and their agricultural products.
Question: Which of the following best explains how the Second Agricultural Revolution impacted populations?. Answer: Populations maintained healthier diets and longer life expectancies.
Question: Which of the following best explains the bid-rent theory in the United States?. Answer: Only commercial landlords can afford the land within the central business district.
Question: Which of the following best identifies the region of Eastern Europe from the 1940s through the early 1990s?. Answer: Shatterbelt region
Question: In which of the following ways did the Industrial Revolution change many European cities?. Answer: Markets grew with increases in urban populations.
Question: Which of the following best exemplifies the process of contagious diffusion?. Answer: A new video spreading rapidly online
Question: Which of the following urban design practices would a European urban planner most likely use to prevent urban sprawl?. Answer: Greenbelts
Question: Which of the following best exemplifies traditional architecture?. Answer: Structures built in an area as it was first being established
Question: Which of the following is an example of national iconography?. Answer: Country flag
Question: Which of the following would most likely be considered a tertiary economic activity?. Answer: Repairing a cell phone
Question: The type of agriculture seen in the second photo is LEAST likely to be associated with which of the following?. Answer: Plantation agriculture
Question: A geographer who supports the conclusions of Thomas Malthus would most likely agree with which of the following statements?. Answer: The J-curve illustrates the dangers presented by exponential population growth.
Question: Gateway cities are best characterized as. Answer: places where immigrants make their way into a country
Question: If an individual were to find the number of items per square unit of distance, this individual has calculated. Answer: arithmetic density
Question: A place defined on a map using coordinates such as latitude and longitude is referred to as a(n). Answer: absolute location
Question: The S-curve is most often associated with what geographic factor?. Answer: World population growth over time
Question: Which of the following can be stated about the Green Revolution?. Answer: It occurred in the 1950s and 1960s when plant and animal hybrids and chemical fertilizers began to be used in Third World agriculture
Question: The phenomenon that occurs when distance plays a role in obstructing interaction between two locations is known as. Answer: friction of distance
Question: Renewable resources are an example of which of the following land-use models?. Answer: Sustainability
Question: Which of the following statements best describes the main difference between population clusters in Asia and Europe?. Answer: In Europe, most people live in urban areas.
